

 
Master Supplier Agreement  
V20| 02-2024               Page 1   of 27
 
 
MASTERCARD DATA PROCESSING AGREEMENT 
CONTROLLER TO PROCESSOR SPECIFIC TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
Last Updated: 13
th
 August 2025 
 
1. Privacy and Data Protection.  
This Data Processing Agreement (“Data Processing Agreement”)   supplements the Master Supplier Agreement or any other 
agreement (the “Agreement”)   between Mastercard and Supplier and governs Supplier’s Processing of Mastercard Personal 
Data.   This  Data  Processing  Agreement  is  intended  to  satisfy  legal  requirements  under  Privacy  and  Data  Protection  Law.  If 
Supplier or any Supplier Personnel receives, has access to or otherwise Processes Personal Data or U.S. “sensitive personal 
data” as defined in and in scope of the U.S. DSP (defined below),  Supplier shall comply with the requirements of this Data 
Processing Agreement.    
The terms used in this Data Processing Agreement have the meaning set forth in this Data Processing Agreement. Capitalized 
terms not otherwise defined herein have the meaning given to them in the Agreement. Except as modified below, the terms 
of the Agreement remain in full force and effect. Addendum A1, Appendix 1 and Appendix 2 form an integral part of this Data 
Processing Agreement. 
2. Definitions.  
In this Data Processing Agreement, the following definitions apply: 
“Business  Purpose”  means  the  use  of  Personal  Data  for  Mastercard  or  Supplier’s  operational  purposes,  or  other  notified  
purposes  as  agreed  under  this  Agreement  or  specified  in  the  SoW,  provided  that  the  use  of  Personal  Data  is  reasonably  
necessary and proportionate to achieve the operational purpose for which the Personal Data was collected or processed or 
for another operational purpose that is compatible with the context in which the Personal Data was collected. 
“Data  Protection  Rights”  means  all  rights  granted  to  individuals  under  the  applicable  Privacy  and  Data  Protection  Law,  
including but not limited to the right to know, the right of access, reproduction, supplement,  rectification, or erasure to or 
of Personal Data, the right to raise complaints, the rights relating to data portability, restriction on Processing, and objection 
to the Processing (including the right to withdraw consent) and the rights relating to automated decision-making. 
“Europe” means the European Economic Area, Switzerland, Monaco and the United Kingdom. 
“EU GDPR” means the EU General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (as amended and replaced from time to time). 
“Government Body” means (1) the government of a country or of a political subdivision of a country, (2) an instrumentality 
of  any  such  government,  (3)  any  other  individual,  entity,  or  organization  authorized  by  Law  to  perform  any  executive,  
legislative,   judicial,   regulatory,   administrative,   military,   or   police   functions   of   any   such   government,   and   (4)   an   
intergovernmental organization. 
“
Government Agency” means any public and quasi-public authority that may have jurisdiction over Mastercard or Supplier 
to request for Personal Data. 
“Law” means one or more laws, statutes, regulations, rules, executive orders, conventions, and other legally binding official 
releases  of  or  by  any  Government  Body,  in  each  case  as  then  in  effect  in  the  territory  where  the  obligations  under  this  
Agreement and the applicable SOWs are being carried out. 
“Personal Data” or “Personal Information” (which may be used interchangeably in this Agreement) means any information 
relating  to  an  identified  or  identifiable  individual,  whether  directly  or  indirectly  identifiable,  including  but  not  limited  to  
contact  information,  demographic  information,  passport  number,  Social  Security  number  or  other  national  identification  
number,  bank  account  information,  Primary  Account  Number  and  authentication  information  (e.g.  identification  codes,  
passwords) or as defined under the applicable Privacy and Data Protection Law.  
“Personal  Data  Breach”  means  a  breach  of  security  leading  to  the  accidental  or  unlawful  destruction,  loss,  alteration,  
unauthorized disclosure of, access to, or other unauthorized Processing of Personal Data transmitted, stored, or otherwise 
Processed or as defined under the applicable Privacy and Data Protection Law. 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 2 of 27
 
“Pre-2021 Standard Clauses” or “Pre-2021 SCCs” means 
(i) the standard contractual clauses for the transfer of personal data to data processors established in third countries adopted 
by the European Commission decision of 5 February 2010, published under document number C(2010) 593 2010/87/EU; 
(ii) the standard contractual clauses for the transfer of personal data to third countries adopted by the European Commission 
decision of 15 June 2001, published under document number C(2001) 1539); and  
(iii) the standard contractual clauses for the transfer of personal data to third countries adopted by the European Commission 
decision of 27 December 2004, published under document number C(2004) 5271 (as applicable) 
“Privacy and Data Protection Law” means any Law, statute, declaration, decree, legislation, enactment, order, ordinance, 
guidelines,    regulation, rule, circular, national, local or industry standard (as amended and replaced from time to time) which 
relates  to  the  protection  of  individuals  with  regards  to  the  Processing  of  Personal  Data  to  which  the  Parties  are  subject,  
including but not limited to (1) EU General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679  (as amended and replaced from time to 
time)  and  the  e-Privacy  Directive  2002/58/EC  (as  amended  by  Directive  2009/136/EC,  and  as  amended  and  replaced  from  
time to time) and their respective national implementing legislations(as amended and replaced from time to time; the Swiss 
Federal Data Protection Act and its implementing ordinances (as amended and replaced from time to time); the Monaco Data 
Protection Act (as amended and replaced from time to time); the UK Data Protection Law (as amended and replaced from 
time to time) and any other data protection law of the European Union  the European Economic Area (EEA ) (together “EU 
Data  Protection  Law”);  (2)  collectively,  all  U.S.  state  privacy  laws  and  their  implementing  regulations,  as  amended  or  
superseded from time to time, that apply generally to the Processing of individuals’ Personal Data, including but not limited 
to  the  California  Consumer  Privacy  Act  of  2018  (“CCPA”)  as  amended  by  the  California  Privacy  Rights  Act  of  2020  and  its  
implementing regulations (“CPRA”); (3) Executive Order 14117 and rules issues thereunder, including 28 C.F.R. Part 202 (the 
“U.S. DSP”), as amended from time to time (4) the U.S. Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act; (5) the Brazil General Data Protection Act 
(Federal Law n. 13.709/2018), or “Brazil GDPA” or “LGPD”; (6) the South Africa Protection of Personal Information Act; (7) 
the  Personal  Information  Protection  Law  of  the  PRC  and  other  PRC  Laws  relating  to  privacy  and  protection  of  Personal 
Information; (8) Argentina Personal Data Protection Act; (9) Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Personal Data Protection Law (amended 
2023) and its Implementing Regulations; (10) Nigeria Data Protection Act 2023 and its subsidiary regulations and guidelines; 
(11) Turkey Law on the Protection Of Personal Data (DPL) No. 6698 and its regulations and successors; (12) Canadian federal 
and provincial laws governing the processing of Personal Information, (13) Thailand's Personal Data Protection Act B.E. 2562 
(2019) and its relevant subordinate regulations; (14) Japan’s Act on the Protection of Personal Information; and including the 
Personal  Information  Protection  and  Electronic  Documents  Act  and  substantially  similar  provincial  laws;  Laws  regulating  
unsolicited email, telephone, and text message communications; security breach notification Laws; Laws imposing minimum 
security requirements; Laws requiring the secure disposal of records containing certain Personal Data; Laws governing the 
portability  and/or  cross-border  transfer  of  Personal  Data;  and  all  other  similar  international,  federal,  state,  national,  
provincial, and local requirements, in each case, as applicable and as updated, amended or replaced from time to time 
“P
rocess” or “Processing” or “Processing of Personal Data”   means any operation or set of operations which is performed on 
Personal Data or on sets of Personal Data, whether or not by automated means, such as collection, recording, organization, 
structuring,  storage,  adaptation  or  alteration,  retrieval,  consultation,  use,  disclosure  by  transmission,  dissemination  or  
otherwise making available, alignment or combination, restriction, erasure or destruction or as defined under the applicable 
Privacy and Data Protection Law. 
“Sensitive Data” (or “Sensitive Personal Data”,  or “Sensitive Personal Information”), which may be used interchangeably in 
this Agreement) means any Personal Data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, 
or trade union membership, genetic data, biometric data, data concerning health or data concerning a natural person’s sex 
life or sexual orientation, as well as any other type of data that will be considered to be sensitive according to any Privacy and 
Data Protection Law as applicable.  
“Sub-Processor” means the person (whether a natural person, a legal entity or any other organization) engaged by Supplier 
or any further sub-contractor to Process Personal Data on behalf of and under the instructions of Mastercard.  
“UK Data Protection Law”   means (i) the Data Protection Act 2018; (ii) the means the UK General Data Protection Regulation,  
amended by the UK Data Protection Act 2018, and as it may be amended from time to time and the Data Protection, Privacy 
and Electronic Communications (Amendments etc) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 and 2020 (‘UK GDPR’) as relevant; and (iii) the 
e-  Privacy Directive 2002/58/EC (as amended by Directive 2009/136/EC) as transposed into UK national law. 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 3   of 27
 
“UK Standard Contractual Clauses” or “UK SCCs” means the UK International Data Transfer Addendum to the EU Commission 
Standard Contractual Clauses, issued under Section 119A of the Data Protection Act 2018 by the Information Commissioner 
and laid before Parliament on 2 February 2022 in force 21 March 2022. 
“EU  SCCs”  means  in  respect  of  Personal  Data  to  which  the  EU  GDPR  was  applicable  prior  to  its  processing  by  Supplier  as  
Processor,  the  standard  contractual  clauses  for  the  transfer  of  personal  data  to  third  countries  adopted  by  the  European  
Commission under Commission Implementing Decision (EU) 2021/914 including the text from the modules of such clauses as 
specified in this Data Processing Agreement. 
The  terms  “Controller,”  “Data  Subject”,  “Processor”, and “Supervisory  Authority”  shall  have  the  meanings  given  to  them  
under EU Data Protection Law
 or as defined under the applicable Privacy and Data Protection Law. 
3. General Privacy and Data Protection. 
3.1. Scope. 
All  the  obligations  in  this  Data  Processing  Agreement  apply  to  each  Party  without  regard  to  the  residency  or  location  
(permanent or otherwise) of any individual to whom any Personal Data relates, the location of a Party’s operations, the extent 
to which it has targeted a particular geographic regions or jurisdictions, or any other factors. 
3.2. Compliance with Privacy and Data Protection Law. 
Both  Parties  represent  and  warrant  that  they  will  comply  with  Privacy  and  Data  Protection  Law  when  Processing  Personal  
Data  in  the  context  of  the  Services,  and  that  they  will  perform  their  obligations  under  this  Data  Processing  Agreement  in  
compliance with Privacy and Data Protection Law and, particularly: (i)  that they will provide the level of privacy protection 
required by Privacy and Data Protection Law, and (i) where applicable,  further represents and warrants that it understands 
and will comply with this Data Processing  Agreement. 
3.3. Roles of the Parties. 
The Parties agree that Mastercard is a Business and/or Controller (or similar status that determines the purposes and means 
of  Processing  under  applicable  Privacy  and  Data  Protection  Law)  or  Processor  acting  on  behalf  of  Mastercard’s  customers  
who act as Controllers of Personal Data Processed under this Data Processing Agreement, and Supplier is a Service Provider 
and/or Processor (or other similar status acting on behalf of Mastercard under applicable Privacy and Data Protection Law), 
and/or  as  Sub-Processor  of  Mastercard’s  customers  for  the  Processing  of  Personal  Data  for  the  purpose  of  providing  the  
Services specified in the Agreement and as implemented by each individual Statement of Work where applicable
. Supplier 
must  only  Process  Personal  Data  on  Mastercard’s  behalf  and  instructions,  or  of  Mastercard’s  customers,  for  a  Business  
Purpose  as  strictly  necessary  to  provide  the  Services  specified  in  the  Agreement.  Mastercard,  or  the  customers  on  whose  
behalf Mastercard may act, have the sole and exclusive authority to determine the purposes and means of the Processing of 
Personal Data that are disclosed to Supplier. Supplier is prohibited from Processing Personal Data for any other purpose.   
3.4. Instructions.  
3.4.1 Mastercard’s  instructions  are  documented  in  Annex  1  of Addendum  A1  of the  Agreement  and  any  applicable  SOW(s).  
Mastercard may issue additional instructions to Supplier as it deems necessary to comply with Privacy and Data Protection 
Law. Supplier must notify Mastercard (1) when any law or legal requirement prevents Supplier (a) from fulfilling its obligations 
under  this  Data  Processing  Agreement  or  Privacy  and  Data  Protection  Law,  and  (b)  from  complying  with  the  instructions  
received  from  Mastercard  or  (2)  if  the  Supplier  determines  it  can  no  longer  fulfil  its  obligations  under  this  Agreement  or 
Privacy and Data Protection Law.  Upon receiving notice from Supplier, the Parties shall work together to come to a mutual 
agreement to implement an agreeable solution for the purpose of ensuring compliance. In the meantime, Mastercard may, 
in  part  or  in  whole,  as  applicable,  direct  Supplier  to  take  reasonable  and  appropriate  steps  to  stop  and  remediate  
unauthorized Processing, including suspending the Processing of Personal Data by Supplier, until such event resulting in non-
compliance  has  ceased  or  has  been  rectified.  If  Supplier  fails  to  correct  the  non-compliance or  Parties  cannot  come  to  a  
mutual solution to rectify the non-compliance, Mastercard is entitled to terminate any further Personal Data Processing and 
the Agreement, if doing so is required to comply with Privacy and Data Protection Law. 
3.4.2 Except  as  expressly  permitted  by  Privacy  and  Data  Protection  Law  and  where  applicable,  Supplier  is  prohibited  from  (i)  
Processing  including  retaining,  using,  or  disclosing  Personal  Data  outside  of  the  direct  business  relationship  between  the  
Parties, and (ii) combining Personal Data with Personal Data obtained from, or on behalf of, sources other than Mastercard. 
3.4.3 Where Mastercard discloses or makes available de-identified data to Supplier, Supplier is prohibited from attempting to re-
identify said data.  

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 4 of 27
 
3.5. Supplier Obligations. Supplier agrees and warrants that it will: 
3.5.1 Data Protection Officer where required under Privacy and Data Protection Law, appoint a data protection officer or similar 
function who will oversee the Processing of Personal Data conducted on behalf of Mastercard. 
3.5.2 Internal Records:  maintain internal records of all Processing conducted on behalf of Mastercard, with at the minimum the 
categories of information required under applicable Privacy and Data Protection Law and provide them to Mastercard upon 
request. 
3.5.3 Marketing  Communications,  Cookies  and  Similar  Technologies:  where  applicable,  comply  with  all  opt-in  and  opt-out 
requirements for sending marketing communications, consult any opt-out registers where applicable and comply with legal 
requirements applicable to cookies and similar technologies.  
3.5.4 Notification Obligations: immediately inform Mastercard, in writing, in relation to any Personal Data Processed in the context 
of the Services of: (i) any requests from individuals or Data Subjects to exercise their Data Protection Rights; (ii) any request 
or complaint received from Mastercard’s customers, consumers, employees or any other individual or Data Subject; (iii) any 
question,  complaint,  investigation  or  other  inquiries  from  regulators  or  Data  Protection  Authorities;  and  (iv)  any  public  
authority of  whatever  jurisdiction  requesting  disclosure  of  or  information  about  the  Personal  Data  that  are  Processed  by  
Supplier.    Supplier  agrees  and  warrants  that  it  will  provide  a  copy  of  any  such  requests  within  48  (forty-eight)  hours  (or  a  
shorter     period     of     time     if     required     by     Privacy     and     Data     Protection     Law)     of     receipt     by     email     to     
privacyanddataprotection@mastercard.com
 and that it will respond to such requests only in accordance with Mastercard’s 
prior written authorization  
3.5.5 Cooperation and Assistance: cooperate with Mastercard to ensure compliance with Privacy and Data Protection Law, this 
Data Processing Agreement, and Mastercard’s  or Mastercard’s customers’ instructions, and to assist Mastercard in fulfilling 
its  own  obligations  under  Privacy  and  Data  Protection  Law  and  as  applicable  Mastercard’s  or  Mastercard’s  customer’s  
instructions, including complying with individuals’ or Data Subjects' requests to exercise their Data Protection Rights; verifying 
the identity of the individual or Data Subject making a request; replying to inquiries or complaints from individuals or Data 
Subjects; replying to investigations and inquiries from competent Government Bodies or Supervisory Authorities; conducting 
data  protection  impact  assessments  and  consultations  and  other  interactions  with  competent  Government  Bodies  or  
Supervisory Authorities. Where required by Mastercard, the Supplier shall submit the Personal Data it holds on the individual 
or Data Subject in a format agreed and within the timeframe agreed by Mastercard.  
3.5.6 Return  and  Deletion  of  Personal  Data:  upon  expiry  or  termination  of  the  Agreement  and/or  relevant  SOW,  or  if  the  
Agreement or any relevant part of the Agreement authorizing Supplier to Process Personal Data has been revoked, rescinded, 
or  held  void,  invalid  or  unenforceable,  or  as  set  forth  within  the  relevant  SOW,  comply  with  Mastercard’s  request,  and  at  
Mastercard’s  sole  option,  securely  delete  existing  copies  of  the  Personal  Data  or  return  the  same  to  Mastercard  without  
retention of any hard or soft copies, unless applicable local law requires storage of the Personal Data, in which case Supplier 
will protect the confidentiality of the Personal Data, will not actively Process the Personal Data anymore, and will continue 
to comply with this Data Processing Agreement. Supplier will issue a certificate of deletion upon Mastercard’s request. 
3.6. Security of the Processing, Confidentiality, and Personal Data Breach Notification. Supplier agrees and warrants that: 
3.6.1 it  has  implemented  and  maintains  a  comprehensive  written  information  security  program  that  complies  with  Privacy  and  
Data  Protection  Law  and  Appendix  1  of  the  Controller  to  Processor  terms  of  this  Data  Processing  Agreement.  Supplier’s 
written information security program must include appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure a level of 
security appropriate to the risk, which includes at the minimum the security measures listed in Appendix 1 of the Controller 
to  Processor  terms  of    this  Data  Processing  Agreement  andas  appropriate:  (a)  the  pseudonymization  and  encryption  of  
Personal Data (including the encryption of Primary Account Number (PAN) in transit and in rest); (b) the ability to ensure the 
ongoing  confidentiality,  integrity,  availability  and  resilience  of  processing  systems  and  services  (including  by  appropriately  
maintaining  and  reviewing  logs,  performing  periodic  password  renewal  and  applying  multi-factor  authentication,  in  
accordance  with  the  controls  referenced  in  Appendix  1  of  the  Controller  to  Processor  terms  of  this  Data  Processing  
Agreement); (c) the ability to restore the availability and access to Personal Data in a timely manner in the event of a physical 
or technical incident; and (d) a process for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of Supplier’s technical 
and organizational measures for ensuring the security of the Processing of Personal Data.  In assessing the appropriate level 
of security, Supplier must take into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation and the nature, scope, context 
and purposes of Processing of Personal Data as well as the risk of varying likelihood and severity for the rights and freedoms 
of Data Subjects and the risks that are presented by the Processing of Personal Data, in particular from accidental or unlawful 
destruction,  loss,  alteration,  unauthorized  disclosure  of,  or  access  to  Personal  Data  transmitted,  stored  or  otherwise  
Processed. Supplier’s  Information  Security  Program  shall  comply  with  the  applicable  Payment  Card  Industry  Data  Security  

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 5 of 27
 
Standards  to  the  extent  Supplier  Processes  payment  card  information  (hereinafter  defined  as  (“Information  Security  
Program”).  
3.6.2 Supplier  undertakes  to  notify  Mastercard  of  any  technical,  operational,  organizational  or  other  change  having  a  material  
impact  on  the  security,  confidentiality  or  protection  of  Personal  Data,  no  less  than  15  (fifteen)  working  days  prior  to  
implementing  any  such  change.    Supplier  agrees  to  submit  its  Information  Security  Program  to  the  Data  Protection  and  
Security Audit as defined under section 3.9 of this Data Processing Agreement.    
3.6.3 Supplier must take steps to ensure that any person (whether an individual, a legal entity or any other organization) acting 
under its authority, including any Sub-Processor, who has access to Personal Data is only granted access to Personal Data on 
a need-to-know basis, is subject to a duly enforceable contractual or statutory confidentiality obligation, and only Processes 
Personal Data in accordance with this Data Processing Agreement and Mastercard’s instructions.  
3.6.4 Supplier will inform Mastercard of any Personal Data Breach or where there is a reasonable suspicion that a Personal Data 
Breach has occurred i) in writing to SOC@mastercard.com,  TPRM@mastercard.com and 
the account manager or person they 
are  doing  business  with  inside  of  Mastercard,  and;  ii)  by  contacting  the  Mastercard  Operations  Command  Center  (OCC)  in  
Mastercard  at  +1-636-722-3600  or  1-800-358-3060  (US  toll-free  number)  and  selecting  the  option  to  be  directed  to  
Mastercard’s Security Operations Center without undue delay, and no later than 24 (twenty-four) hours (or a shorter period 
of  time  if  required  by  Privacy  and  Data  Protection  Law)  after  having  become  aware  of  a  Personal  Data  Breach  or  the  
reasonable suspicion of a Personal Data Breach. Such notice shall summarize in reasonable detail the effect on Mastercard, 
if known, of the Personal Data Breach, the corrective action taken and to be taken by Supplier and/or its Sub-Processor, and 
other information as required by Privacy and Data Protection Law.  Supplier shall and shall cause its Sub-Processors (if any), 
to  promptly  take  all  necessary  and  advisable  corrective  actions  and  fully  cooperate  with  Mastercard  in  all  reasonable  and  
lawful  efforts  to  prevent,  mitigate,  investigate  or  rectify  such  Personal  Data  Breach,  including  in  relation  to  any  forensic  
investigation  or  related  audit  requested  by  Mastercard.  Mastercard  is  free  to  use  the  forensic  investigator  of  its  choice. 
Supplier shall collect, preserve and document all evidence regarding the discovery and cause of, and vulnerabilities, response, 
remedial actions, and impact, related to the Personal Data Breach, and shall provide such documentation to Mastercard upon 
request. Supplier will be responsible for the costs and expenses associated with the performance of its and its Sub-Processor’s 
obligations described in this paragraph, unless the Personal Data Breach is caused by the acts or omissions of Mastercard.   
Supplier  will  assist  Mastercard  in  complying  with  its  own  obligations  or  with  Mastercard’s  customers’  obligations  under 
Privacy and Data Protection Law to notify a Personal Data Breach. In case of conflict between this Section 3.6.4 and section 
3.9, this section 3.6.4 will prevail.  
3.6.5 Except to the extent prohibited by applicable legal, regulatory or law enforcement requirements, Supplier must obtain the 
written  approval  of  Mastercard  prior  to  the  publication  or  communication  of  any  filings,  communications,  notices,  press  
releases  or  reports  related  to  any  Personal  Data  Breach  that  expressly  mention  Mastercard  or  its  Affiliates.  Supplier  
acknowledges  and  agrees  that  a  violation  of  this  section  3.6,  or  the  occurrence  of  any  Personal  Data  Breach,  may  cause  
immediate  and  irreparable  harm  to  Mastercard  for  which  money  damages  may  not  constitute  an  adequate  remedy.  
Therefore, Supplier agrees that Mastercard may seek injunctive or other equitable relief for any such violation or incident, in 
addition to its remedies at law, without proof of actual damages.  
3.6.6 Supplier agrees and warrants that it has not purposefully created back doors or similar programming that could be used to 
access  the  Personal  Data  in  transit  or  at  restor  otherwise  created  business  processes  to  facilitate  mass  and  indiscriminate  
access     to     Personal     Data     by     Government     Agencies.     Supplier     must     notify     Mastercard     by     email     to     
privacyanddataprotection@mastercard.com  as  soon  as  it  becomes  aware  of  the  existence  of  a  back  door  or  similar  
programming or of a new business process which enables mass and indiscriminate access to Personal Data.  
3.7. International Data Transfers 
3.7.1 Supplier  agrees  and  warrants  that  it  will  not  transfer  Personal  Data  or  allow  access  to  Personal  Data  from  outside  the  
jurisdictions as listed under Annex 1 of Addendum A1 of the Agreement or otherwise authorized by Mastercard in writing in 
advance  under  the  respective  Statement  of  Work.  Any  transfer  shall  only  be  made  with  prior  explicit  written  consent  of  
Mastercard.  
3.7.2 If  Supplier  is  authorized  under  the  Agreement  to  transfer  Personal  Data,  it  must  ensure  that  the  Personal  Data  will  be  
protected with the same level of protection as provided by this Data Processing Agreement and, where required, implement 
any data transfer mechanism required by Privacy and Data Protection Law.  

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 6 of 27
 
3.7.3 Supplier  represents  and  warrants  that  it  is  not  subject  to  a  requirement  under  applicable  Law  including  Privacy  and  Data  
Protection  Law that  would  prevent  Supplier  from  transferring  Personal  Data  in  accordance  with  this  Data  Processing  
Agreement.  
3.7.4 Supplier agrees that Mastercard may have supplementary Personal Data transfer and localization requirements arising from 
contractual  obligations.  In  those  cases,  Mastercard  will  instruct  Supplier  under  the  applicable  SOW,  not  to  transfer  the  
Personal Data out of the original jurisdiction and Supplier commits to not proceed with said Personal Data transfers.  
3.7.5 European Specific Provision: 
3.7.5.1 Supplier agrees and warrants that it is prohibited from transferring Personal Data outside of Europe except as listed above in 
section 3.7.1 and if it obtains the explicit written consent of Mastercard and provided that the Personal Data are transferred 
to a jurisdiction which has been considered to provide an adequate level of protection under EU Data Protection Law or to a 
data  recipient  which  has  implemented  adequate  safeguards  under  EU  Data  Protection  Law  such  as  approved  Binding  
Corporate Rules or Standard  Contractual Clauses. Supplier agrees to protect Personal Data in the jurisdictions listed in Section 
3.7.1 of this Data Processing Agreement in compliance with EU Data Protection Law, and this Data Processing Agreement and 
will not use the Personal Data transferred to the jurisdictions listed in Section 3.7.1 of this Data Processing Agreement for its 
own purposes. 
3.7.5.2 Where Supplier transfers Personal Data subject to the EU GDPR or the UK GDPR to a country that is not subject to a European 
Commission adequacy decision; or transfers Personal Data subject to the Swiss Data Protection Law to a country that is not 
considered  to  provide  for  adequate  data  protection  legislation  by  the  Federal  Council  (“EU/Swiss  Transfers”),  the  Parties  
agree  that  the  transfer  shall  be  governed  by  the  SCCs,  which  are  hereby  incorporated  into  this  Agreement  by  reference,  
subject to section 3.7.5.3 of this Agreement. The Parties agree that signature to and dating of this Agreement shall constitute 
all required signatures and dates for the SCCs.  
3.7.5.3 For the purposes of the EU SCCs that apply pursuant to section 3.7.5.2 of this Data Processing Agreement, the Parties agree 
the following: 
a) the text from module two of the EU SCCs shall apply where Mastercard is the Controller, the text from module three 
of the EU SCCs shall apply where Mastercard is a Processor on behalf its customers and no other modules or any 
clauses marked as optional in the EU SCCs shall apply; 
b) for the purposes of clause 9(a) of the EU SCCs, as applicable under modules two and three, option 1 applies with 60 
business days as the specified time period for submitting the request for specific authorization. Any request pursuant 
to clause 9(a) of the EU SCCs shall be made pursuant to section 3.8.7 of this Data Processing Agreement, including 
the information required thereof, which shall be provided in addition to any other information necessary to enable 
Mastercard to decide on the authorization. The list of Sub-processors already authorized by Mastercard required by 
Annex  III  of  the  EU  SCCs  is  set  out  in  Annex  1  of  Addendum  A1  of  the  Agreement  or  otherwise  authorized  by  
Mastercard in writing in advance under the respective SOWs;   
c) the information as required by Annex I of the EU SCCs is as set out in Annex 2 of Addendum A1of the Agreement and 
the signatures for the purpose of Annex I of the EU SCCs are the signatures to the Agreement and the date is the 
date of the Agreement; 
d) the technical and organisational measures required by Annex II of the EU SCCs are as set out in Appendix 1 of the 
Controller to Processor terms of this Data Processing Agreement and Annex 2 of Addendum A1 of the Agreement 
and  the  information  in  relation  to  the  technical  and  organisational  measures  in  relation  to  Data  Subject  rights  as  
required by clause 10(b) and Annex II of the EU SCCs as applicable under modules two and three are as set out in 
Annex 2 of  Addendum A1 of the Agreement; 
e) any  notice  provided  under  clause  9(d)  of  the  EU  SCCs  shall  be  provided  according  to  the  timing  and  to  the  email  
address as set out in section 3.8.8 of this Data Processing Agreement; 
f) any notice provided under clause 14(e) or clause 16 of the EU SCCs shall be provided according to the timing and to 
the email address as set out in section 3.7.9 of this Data Processing Agreement; 
g) for  the  purposes  of  clause  17  of  the  EU  SCCs,  option  1  applies  and  the  EU  SCCs  shall  be  governed  by  the  laws  of  
Belgium and for the purposes of clause 18 of the EU SCCs, the courts of Belgium shall have jurisdiction in relation to 
the EU SCCs; and 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 7 of 27
 
h) notwithstanding  anything  contrary  in  this  Data  Processing  Agreement  or  the  Agreement,  clause  5  of  the  EU  SCCs  
shall  apply  and,  as  such,  in  the  event  of  a  contradiction  between  the  EU  SCCs  and  the  provisions  of  this  Data  
Protection Agreement or the Agreement, the EU SCCs shall prevail. 
3.7.5.4          Applicable Law and Jurisdiction: 
The Processing of Personal Data subject to EU Data Protection Law under this Exhibit is governed by Belgian law and 
any disputes between the Parties relating to the Processing of Personal Data subject to EU Data Protection Law will 
be  subject  to  the  exclusive  jurisdiction  of  the  courts  in  Belgium,  expect  for  section  3.7.7  of  this  Data  Processing  
Agreement in which case laws of England and Wales apply and any dispute arising from it shall be resolved by the 
courts  of  England  and  Wales  and  section  3.7.6  in  which  case  the  ordinary  courts  of  Zurich,  canton  of  Zurich,  
Switzerland.  
3.7.6 Swiss Specific Provision: 
In  respect  of  Personal  Data  to  which  Swiss  Data  Protection  Law  applies,  (i)  in  deviation  of  clause  13  (a)  of  the  EU  SCCs  in  
connection with its Annex I.C., the competent supervisory authority in Annex I.C. shall be the Swiss Federal Data Protection 
and Information Commissioner and all references to the “competent supervisory authority” shall be interpreted accordingly; 
(ii) in deviation of clause 17 of the EU SCCs, the EU SCCs shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive 
laws of Switzerland; (iii) in deviation of clause 18 (a) and (b) of the EU SCCs, any disputes arising from the EU SCCs shall be 
subject  to  the  exclusive  jurisdiction  of  the  ordinary  courts  of  Zurich,  canton  of  Zurich,  Switzerland;  (iv)  any  references  to 
“Regulation (EU) 2016/679” and specific articles thereof in the EU SCCs should be interpreted to refer to Swiss Data Protection 
Law and its corresponding provisions, as applicable; (v) in supplementation of clause 8.7 of the SCCs, the term “sensitive data” 
shall include data on the intimate sphere, trade union related views or activities, political, religious or philosophical activities, 
criminal  proceedings,  administrative  proceedings  and  sanctions  and  social  security  measures;  and  (vi)  the  term  “member  
state” shall not be interpreted in such a manner as to exclude data subjects in Switzerland from the possibility of bringing 
legal proceedings against the data exporter and/or data importer in their place of habitual residence (Switzerland) and clause 
18(c) of the EU SCCs shall be interpreted accordingly.  
 
3.7.7  UK Specific Provision: 
To the extent a Supplier receives any Personal Data subject to the UK GDPR from Mastercard and Processes or transfers such 
Personal Data in a country that is not subject to a UK government adequacy decision (“UK Transfers”), the Supplier agrees 
that such UK Transfers shall be governed by standard data protection clauses issued by the UK Information Commissioner 
under  S119A(1)  Data  Protection  Act  2018  (“UK  Addendum”),  which  is  hereby  incorporated  into  this  Data  Processing  
Agreement by reference, but as permitted by clause 17 of such UK Addendum, the parties agree to change the format of the 
information set out in Part 1 of the UK Addendum so that: (i) the details of the parties as set out in Table 1, and their signatures 
are  included  in  the  Annex  2  of  the  Addendum  A1  of  the  Agreement;  (ii)  in  Table  2,  the  first  option  is  selected  and  the  
“Approved EU SCCs” are those incorporated into this Data Processing Agreement as per section 3.7.5.3; (iii) in Table 3, “Annex 
1A and 1B to the Approved EU SCCs” are Annex 2 of Addendum A1 of the Agreement, “Annex II to the Approved EU SCCs” 
are Appendix 1 of the Controller to Processor terms of this Data Processing Agreement and “Annex III to the Approved EU 
SCCs” are Annex 1 of Addendum A1of the Agreement or as listed under the applicable SOWs; and (iv) in Table 4, Neither Party 
shall have the right to end this Addendum pursuant to Section 19. The UK Transfers shall be governed by the laws of England 
and  Wales  and  any  dispute  arising  from  it  shall  be  resolved  by  the  courts  of  England  and  Wales.  The  Parties  agree,  that  
Mastercard may make any amendments to the application of the EU SCCs, the application of the UK Addendum and/or any 
other amendments to this section 3.7.7 of this Data Processing Agreement in respect of UK transfers as it deems necessary 
to implement any replacement standard contractual clauses approved for use under Article 46 of the UK GDPR. 
 
3.7.8 For the purpose of Processing of Personal Data subject to EU Data Protection Law, Supplier will notify Mastercard in writing 
to TPRM@mastercard.com
, with the subject line “Europe Data Processing Addendum Notification”, at least 60 calendar days 
prior  to  any  new  intended  data  transfer  to  a  country  that  is  not  subject  to  a  European  Commission  adequacy  decision,  or  
deemed a country not providing for adequate data protection legislation by the Federal Council, as applicable including the 
justification of the necessity of the transfer, an explanation of any adequate supplementary measures implemented by the 
Supplier to ensure essential equivalence if necessary or justified and an explanation if Supplier considers that such safeguards 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 8 of 27
 
are not necessary. Any such transfer is subject to Mastercard’s prior written consent. Where Mastercard does not consent to 
such transfer and further Processing of Personal Data is not possible without such transfer, Mastercard may in part or as a 
whole,  as  applicable,  suspend  the  Processing  of  Personal  Data  by  Supplier  or  terminate  the  Agreement,  whichever  is  
appropriate. 
3.7.9 For the purpose of Processing of Personal Data subject to EU Data Protection Law, Supplier will promptly and no later than 
48 hours from becoming aware inform Mastercard in writing to TPRM@mastercard.com
, with the subject line “Europe Data 
Processing Addendum Notification”, if (1) it has reason to believe that it is or has become subject to laws or practices that 
prevent the Supplier from fulfilling its obligations under the EU SCCs , and (2) it is unable to comply with the EU SCCs , for 
whatever reason. Supplier shall provide the description of the non-compliance and the reasons for the non-compliance, and 
its impact or likely impact on Mastercard or Mastercard customers.
 
3.8. Data Provision or Disclosure to Sub-Processors  
3.8.1 Supplier must not share, transfer, transmit, disclose or otherwise provide access to or make available any Personal Data to 
any person (whether a natural person, legal entity or any other organization) other than those Sub-Processors listed under 
Annex 1 of Addendum A1of the Agreement or otherwise authorized by Mastercard in writing in advance under the respective 
SOWs.  
3.8.2 Without prejudice to Section 3.8.1 above, Supplier must ensure that, in each instance in which it engages a Sub-Processor to 
Process Personal Data on Mastercard’s behalf it must enter into a binding written agreement with the Sub-Processor with 
the same security and privacy and data protection obligations that apply to Supplier under this Data Processing Agreement 
and Privacy and Data Protection Law. 
3.8.3 Prior to any sub-processing, Supplier must carry out adequate due diligence to ensure that the Sub-Processor is capable of (i) 
Processing Personal Data with at least the same level of protection for the Processing of Personal Data and of (ii) complying 
with the same security and privacy and data protection obligations as are imposed on Supplier under this Data Processing 
Agreement and Privacy and Data Protection Law.   
3.8.4 Supplier  must  inform  Mastercard  in  writing  at  least  60  calendar  days  prior  to  any  change  to  the  role  or  status  of  the  Sub-
Processor. Mastercard  may  object  in  writing  to  Supplier’s  appointment  of  a  new  Sub-Processor  on  reasonable  grounds  by  
notifying  Supplier  in  writing  within  30  calendar  days  of  receipt  of  notice  in  accordance  with  this  section.  In  the  event  
Mastercard  objects,  the  Parties  shall  discuss  Mastercard’s  concerns  in  good  faith  with  a  view  to  achieving  a  commercially  
reasonable resolution. 
3.8.5 Supplier  will  provide  Mastercard  with  the  necessary  information  to  help  verifying  the  Sub-Processor’s  compliance  with  its  
data protection obligations (including, where appropriate, attestations and certifications of the Sub-Processor’s compliance 
with data protection and information security standards, such as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI-
DSS) and ISO certifications, as applicable). 
3.8.6 Supplier will remain fully liable towards Mastercard for the performance by each Sub-Processor of any and all Sub-Processor’s 
obligations  under  the  agreement  between  Supplier  and  such  Sub-Processor  and  any  other  act  or  omission  by  such  Sub-
Processor in relation to the Processing of Personal Data thereunder.  
3.8.7 Supplier  will  notify  Mastercard  in  writing  to  TPRM@mastercard.com
,  with  the  subject  line  “Europe  Data  Processing  
Addendum Notification”,  about engaging any intended new Sub-Processor(s) or subsequent Sub-Processor(s) with at least 
60 business days notice prior to the engagement of the Sub-processor and such notice shall include the description of the 
Processing by each such Sub-Processor, categories of Data Subjects and the categories of Personal Data Processed, and the 
location of the Processing of Personal Data. Where Mastercard does not consent to the intended new Sub-Processor(s) or 
subsequent Sub-Processor(s) and the Processing of Personal Data is not possible without the involvement of the particular 
Sub-Processor(s) or subsequent Sub-Processors(s) that was objected to by Mastercard, Mastercard may in part or as a whole, 
as applicable, suspend the Processing of Personal Data by Supplier or terminate the Agreement, whichever is appropriate.
 
3.8.8 Supplier   will   promptly   and   no   later   than   48   hours   from   becoming   aware   notify   Mastercard,   in   writing   to   
TPRM@mastercard.com
, with the subject line “Europe Data Processing Addendum Notification”, of any failure by Supplier or 
any Sub-Processor(s) or subsequent Sub-Processor(s) to fulfil its obligations under this Data Processing Agreement or sub-
agreement, including but not limited to where Supplier has engaged any new Sub-Processors, or where Personal Data has 
been transferred to any new locations, without Mastercard's prior written consent.
 
3.9. Data Protection and Data Security Audit 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 9   of 27
 
3.9.1 Upon request by Mastercard and subject to Mastercard’s reasonable discretion, Supplier allows Mastercard or, as applicable, 
Mastercard's customers, or an inspection body composed of independent members selected by Mastercard or Mastercard’s 
customers,  to  audit  and  review  Supplier’s  Information  Security  Program,  data  processing  facilities,  and  data  protection  
compliance  program  to  verify  compliance  with  this  Data  Processing  Agreement,  Privacy  and  Data  Protection  Law,  and  as  
applicable,  Mastercard’s  customers’  instructions  or  own  obligations.  Where  a  Personal  Data  Breach  was  caused  by  a  Sub-
Processor engaged by Supplier, Supplier undertakes to ensure that such Sub-Processor fully cooperates with Mastercard, and 
where requested by Mastercard, allows Mastercard to audit and review such Sub-Processor’s Information Security Program, 
data processing facilities, and data protection compliance program. (“hereinafter defined as “Data Protection and Security 
Audit”).   
3.9.2 The  Parties  will  mutually  agree  upon  the  scope,  timing,  and  duration  of  the  Data  Protection  and  Security  Audit.   The Data 
Protection and Security Audit may be conducted by an independent third-party auditor designated by Mastercard, in which 
case Supplier will make available to Mastercard, or where applicable Mastercard’s customer, the result of the Data Protection 
and Security Audit.   
3.9.3 Supplier agrees to fully cooperate with such Data Protection and Security Audit and implement all commercially reasonable 
changes  to  its  Information  Security  Program,  data  processing  facilities  and  data  protection  compliance  program  that,  as  a  
result of the Data Protection and Security Audit, are required to ensure Supplier’s compliance with this Agreement, Privacy 
and  Data  Protection  Law,  and  as  applicable,  Mastercard’s  customer’s  instructions  or  own  obligations.  Supplier’s  failure  to  
allow or cooperate with any Data Protection and Security Audit or implement any required changes to its Information Security 
Program, data Processing facilities or data protection compliance program shall entitle Mastercard to suspend the Processing 
of Personal Data by Supplier, and to terminate any further Personal Data Processing and terminate the Agreement, if doing 
so  is  reasonably  required  or  expected  by  Mastercard  to  comply  with  this  Data  Processing  Agreement,  Privacy  and  Data  
Protection Law, and as applicable, Mastercard’s customers’ instructions or own obligations. 
3.9.4 Upon request by Mastercard, Supplier must provide a certification of compliance with applicable Privacy and Data Protection 
Law and information security standards, such as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI-DSS) and SOC2 and 
ISO certifications, as applicable. 
3.10. Liability. The Parties agree that: 
3.10.1 Supplier  is  fully  liable  to  Mastercard  for  any  violations  or  breaches  of  Privacy  and  Data  Protection  Law  or  of  this  Data  
Processing Agreement by Supplier or any of its Sub-Processors.  For the avoidance of doubt, any exclusion or limitation of 
liability provided in the Agreement will not apply to Supplier’s liability for infringements of Privacy and Data Protection Law 
or this Data Processing Agreement.    
3.10.2 If  Mastercard  has  paid,  has  been  imposed  an  obligation  to  pay,  or  has  otherwise  been  held  liable  for  payment  of  any  
compensation, damages or fines to any individual, competent Government Body or other third party due to any violations or 
breaches  by  Supplier  or  any  of  its  Sub-Processors,  Mastercard  is  entitled  to  claim  back  from  Supplier  that  part  of  the  
compensation, damages or fines, corresponding to Supplier’s part of responsibility for the compensation, damages or fines.  
3.11. Parties to Data Processing Agreement. 
Where the Processing of Personal Data is subject to EU Data Protection Law or where EU SCCs apply, Mastercard Europe S.A. 
is the signatory to this Exhibit and the EU SCCs. 
3.12.   Change in Law 
Mastercard will make an amendment to this Data Processing Agreement as are reasonably necessary from time to time to 
update and address the requirements of Privacy and Data Protection Law. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 10 of 27
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 1: SECURITY MEASURES 
 
TECHNICAL  AND  ORGANISATIONAL  MEASURES  INCLUDING  TECHNICAL  AND  ORGANISATIONAL  MEASURES  TO  ENSURE  THE  
SECURITY OF THE DATA 
 
Description of the technical and organisational measures implemented by the data importer(s) (including any relevant certifications) 
to ensure an appropriate level of security, taking into account the nature, scope, context and purpose of the processing, and the risks 
for the rights and freedoms of natural persons. 
 
Supplier will, as a minimum, implement the security measures listed in “Security Requirements for Suppliers and Business Partners” 
at https://procurement.mastercard.com/information_suppliers.html, as may be updated from time to time. These security measures 
must be implemented in addition to any standards, certifications or audit requirements that Supplier adheres to (or has been certified 
to) with regard to the Services or Deliverables, including but not limited to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI-
DSS) and ISO certifications, as applicable.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 11 of 27
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix 2: Region Specific Privacy Terms 
 
1. China  Data  Processing  Addendum. The  Parties  agree  that  they  will  amend  and  supplement  the  terms  as  provided  by  
Mastercard for the purposes of compliance with Privacy and Data Protection Law of the PRC if there is cross border transfer 
of Personal Data subject to the Privacy and Data Protection Law of the People’s Republic of China (“China” or the “PRC”, for 
the purposes of this Agreement, exclusive of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Macau Special Administrative Region 
and Taiwan). 
 
2. Japan Data Processing Addendum. Where (I) Mastercard conducts, in Japan, Processing of Personal Data of data subjects 
located  in  or  out  of  Japan,  and  Supplier  conducts  in  or  out  of  Japan  Processing  of  the  said  Personal  Data on  behalf  of  
Mastercard  or  Mastercard’s  customers  pursuant  to  this  Agreement,  or  (II) Supplier  Processes,  in  or  out  of  Japan,  Personal  
Data  of  data  subjects  located  in  Japan  pursuant  to  this  Agreement, the  following  terms  as  set  forth  below shall  apply  in  
addition to terms in this Agreement for the purposes of compliance with Privacy and Data Protection Law of Japan. 
 
2.1 Definitions. The following terms have the meanings set out below for this Addendum; 
 
2.1.1 “Person-related Information” shall have the meaning given to “person-related information” (kojin kanren joho) under 
Privacy and Data Protection Law of Japan. 
 
2.2 Determination  of  “Personal  Information”  and  “Personal  Data”  by  Mastercard.  Even  if  information  to  be  transferred  from  
Mastercard  to  Supplier  is  Personal  information  and  Personal  Data  as  defined  in  Section 2 above  for  Mastercard  because  
Mastercard can identify a specific data subject by readily collating with other information held by Mastercard but the information 
is not Personal Information or Personal Data as defined at the Section 2 for Processor because Processor cannot identify the data 
subject  due  to  not  holding  such  other  information  for  collation,  this  Agreement  applies  to  Processor  as  if  it  Processes  the  
information as Personal Data. 
2.3 Publication  of  the  Purposes  of  Use.  Supplier  must  have  disclosed  to  the  public,  on  its  publicly  available  privacy  policy  or  
otherwise, the purposes of use of Personal Information that include the purposes as stipulated in Annex 1 of Addendum A1 
of the Agreement and any applicable SOW(s) (Description of the Processing Activities) prior to receiving Personal Data which 
it Processes pursuant to this Agreement. 
2.4 Prohibition of Inappropriate Manner of Processing Personal Data. Supplier shall not Process Personal Data in any manner 
that may facilitate or encourage any illegal or unjust acts. 
2.5 Maintenance of Accuracy of Personal Data. Supplier  must take measures to keep Personal Data accurate and up-to-date, 
including  establishment  and  implementation  of  internal  rules  of  referencing  and  confirmation  when  entering  or  recording  
Personal Data on database, process of correction of errors when they are found, periodical renewals of records, and setting 
out rules on retention periods.  
2.6 Prohibition of Matching.  Supplier shall not match Personal Data which was provided by Mastercard to Supplier for Supplier’s 
Processing pursuant to this Agreement with any Personal Data or Person-related Information which Supplier has obtained 
not from Mastercard. 
2.7 Periodical Confirmation concerning Information Security Program. If Supplier is located in a country other than Japan (except 
for  countries  which  have  received  adequacy  decisions  by  Personal  Information  Protection  Commission  of  Japan),  Supplier 
agrees, without prejudice to the generality of Section 3.9 of this Agreement, that the following shall occur annually at the 
least, or more frequently if requested by Mastercard, in order to ensure Mastercard’s ability to comply with its obligations to 
provide data subjects with information about adequacy measures upon their requests under Privacy and Data Protection Law 
of Japan: 
2.7.1 Supplier  shall  report  to  Mastercard  the  status  of  its  implementation  of  Information  Security  Program  (as  defined  in  
Section 3.6.1 of this Agreement) as requested by Mastercard, and/or fully cooperate with Data Protection and Security 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 12 of 27
 
Audit (as defined in Section 3.9.1 of this Agreement) by Mastercard in accordance with Section 3.9 of this Agreement; 
and 
2.7.2 Supplier shall investigate in a reasonable manner and inform Mastercard (i) whether any Laws, rules or systems of the 
country of Supplier  that may adversely affect Supplier’s implementation of Information Security Program (including but 
not  limited  to  the  country’s  governments’  power  to  broadly  access  Personal  Data  or  mandatory  requirements  for  
Personal Data localization and retention against data subjects’ rights to deletion) exists or not and (ii) if so, the content 
of such Laws, rules of systems. 
 
3. U.S. Specific Provision for U.S. DSP compliance. In the event that Supplier Processes Personal Data that is considered U.S. 
“sensitive  personal  data”  as  defined  in  the  U.S.  DSP,  in  any  quantity,(i)  Supplier  represents  and  warrants  that  it  is  not  a  
“Covered Person” within the meaning of the U.S. DSP, and (ii) if the Supplier is a “foreign person” as defined in the U.S. DSP, 
Supplier  further  agrees  that  it  will  not  engage  in  any  “covered  data  transactions”  involving  “data  brokerage”  of  any  
information  received  from  or  accessible  via  the  Company  in  relation  to  this  Agreement  with  a  “country  of  concern”  or  a  
“covered person,” within the meaning ascribed to each term under the U.S. DSP. 
 
4. CCPA.  
 
4.1 Additional Definitions. 
4.1.1 “CCPA” means the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, as amended, including as amended by the California Privacy 
Rights Act of 2020, together with all implementing regulations. 
4.1.2 The  terms  “business”,  “business  purpose”,  “consumer”,  “personal  information”,  “processing”,  “sale”,  “sell”,  “service  
provider”, and “share” have the meanings given in the CCPA. 
4.2 Prohibitions.  Without prejudice to Supplier’s obligations under Section 3.4, with respect to the processing of Personal Data 
in accordance with the CCPA, Supplier will not, unless otherwise permitted under the CCPA:  
4.2.1 Sell or where applicable, Share any Personal Data and any data derived or inferred from Personal Data or from Processing 
Personal Data to develop or promote competing services; 
4.2.2 retain, use or disclose Personal Data: 
  
4.2.2.1 other than for a business purpose under the CCPA or on behalf of Mastercard and for the specific purpose of 
performing the Services as defined under the Agreement. 
4.2.2.2 outside of the direct business relationship between the Parties; or 
4.2.3 combine Personal Data with Personal Data obtained from, or on behalf of, sources other than Mastercard. 
4.3 Compliance.  (i) Supplier  will  provide  the  level  of  privacy  protection  required  by  CCPA,  and  (ii)  where  applicable,  further  
represents  and  warrants  that  it  understands  and  will  comply  with  this  Data  Processing  Agreement.  Supplier  will  Process  
Personal  Data  in  compliance  with  this  Data  Processing  Agreement  and  CCPA.  Supplier  will  notify  Mastercard  if,  Supplier  is  
unable to meet its obligations under the CCPA and this Data Processing Agreement.   
5. Argentina. 
 
5.1.1 If the Processing of Personal Data of Data Subjects is subject to the Argentina Personal Data Protection Act 25.326 (PDPA) 
(Ley de Protección de los Datos Personales) is involved, Supplier agrees to comply with the obligations of a data importer 
as set out in the model contract titled Contrato Modelo de Transferencia Internacional de Datos Personales con Motivo 
de Prestación de Servicios adopted by the Data Protection Agency of the Republic of Argentina under Disposition 60 — 
E/2016 (the 'Argentinian SCCs’) for the transfer of personal data to data processors established in third countries. 
5.1.2 Supplier acknowledges that each Data Exporter in the Republic of Argentina will be a Data Controller as defined      in      
the PDPA.   In particular, and without limiting the above obligation: 
(i) Supplier  agrees  to  grant  third  party  beneficiary  rights  to  data  subjects,  as  set  out  in  Clause  3  of  the  
Argentinian SCCs, provided that Supplier’s liability shall be limited to its own processing operations; and 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 13 of 27
 
(ii) Supplier  agrees  that  its  obligations  under  the  Argentinian  SCCs  shall  be  governed  by  the  laws  of  the  
Republic of Argentina in which the Data Exporter(s) are established; and 
(iii) the details of the appendices applicable to the Argentinian SCCs are set out in Annex 1 of Addendum A1 of 
the Agreement or under the applicable SOWs insofar as it relates to Data Processor purposes. 
5.1.3 For  the  purposes  of  Annex  A  to  the  Argentinian  SCCs,  the  data  exporter  is  a  Mastercard  entity;  the  data  importer  is   
Supplier, as identified in the Agreement or in any SOW entered into under the Agreement and details about the data 
subjects, categories of data, processing operations and security measures are as set out in Annex 1 of Addendum A1 of 
the Agreement or the applicable SOWs and Appendix 1 of this Data Processing Agreement for security measures.  
5.1.4 If the Processing of Personal Data of Data Subjects is subject to the Argentina Personal Data Protection Act 25.326 (PDPA) 
(Ley de Protección de los Datos Personales), Supplier shall neither apply nor use the Exported Personal Information , as 
defined under the Argentina Personal Data Protection Act for any purpose other than the [ones specified as ‘Processor’ 
purposes  in  Annex  1  of  Addendum  A1  of  the  Agreement]  nor  shall  the  Supplier,  except  as  permitted  in  this  Data  
Processing Agreement, communicate to other parties such Exported Personal Information, even for storage purposes. 
Once  the  corresponding  contractual  obligations  have  been  performed,  the  Exported  Personal  Information  processed  
must be destroyed, except where there is an express authorization given by the person for account of whom such services 
are  rendered,  by  reason  of  a  possibility  of  the  exported  Personal  Information  being  used  for  future  services,  in  which  
case the exported Personal Information may be stored under due security conditions for a maximum term of up to two 
years. The Parties agree to adopt confidentiality measures to protect the exported Personal Information following only 
instructions from the Data Controller as defined in the section 9 of PDPA. Supplier shall process the exported Personal 
Information following only instructions from the Data Controller. 
 
6. Thailand Data Processing Addendum 
 
6.1 Unless the Parties can rely on other cross-border transfer mechanisms as permitted under the applicable AMS Law, where 
Mastercard entity located in Thailand transfers Personal Data ("Data  Exporter") to  the  Supplier  that  is  located  outside  of  
Thailand or an Adequate Country ("Data Importer"), the Parties agree that the transfer shall be governed by the latest version 
of the
 ASEAN Model Contractual Clauses for Cross Border Data Flows (Controller to Processor) in effect ("ASEAN MCCs Module 
1:  Contractual  Provisions  for  Controller-to  -Processor  Transfers”)  ,  which  are  hereby  incorporated  into  this  Agreement  by  
reference, subject to Clauses 2,  3, and 4 of this Addendum. The Parties agree that signature to and dating of this Agreement 
shall constitute all required signatures and dates for the ASEAN MCCs Module  1:  Contractual  Provisions  for  Controller-to-
Processor Transfers. For the avoidance of doubt, the transfer under this Addendum excludes the transmission and reception 
of Personal Data as an intermediary in data transit between computer systems or networks, or data storage in formats that 
do not allow the Data Importer or any other persons to access the Personal Data. 
6.2 In deviation of Clause 1 of the ASEAN MCCs Module 1: Contractual Provisions for Controller-to-Processor Transfers, the 
following terms shall have the following meanings: 
6.2.1 AMS Law”: Any and all written laws of Thailand relating to data protection (or are, minimally, relevant to the transfer of 
Personal Data) which the Data Exporter or the Data Importer (or both) are subject to. For avoidance of the doubt, the 
AMS  Law  applicable  in  respect to the purpose as described in this Agreement is the Personal Data Protection Act B.E. 
2562 (2019), including any relevant regulations and rules, and other applicable laws, as respectively amended or re-
enacted, or as modified from time to time by other provisions (before or after the date hereof). 
6.2.2 "Personal Data Breach" shall have the meanings given to them under the applicable AMS Law. 
6.3 In supplementation of Clause 1 of the ASEAN MCCs Module 1: Contractual Provisions for Controller-to-Processor Transfers, 
the following terms shall have the following meanings: 
6.3.1 "Adequate Country”: A country or territory that is recognized by Thailand's data protection Enforcement Authority from 
time to time as providing adequate protection for processing Personal Data. 
6.3.2 The terms "Controller"   and "Processor"   shall have the meanings given to them under the applicable AMS Law. 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 14 of 27
 
6.4 For the purposes of the ASEAN MCCs Module 1: Contractual Provisions for Controller-to-Processor Transfers that apply 
pursuant to Clause 1 of this Addendum, the Parties agree the following: 
6.4.1 Any  Clauses  identified  as [Optional Clause]  or  not  mandatory  for  inclusion  in  the
 ASEAN  MCCs  Module  1:  Contractual  
Provisions for Controller-to-Processor Transfers shall not apply. For the avoidance of doubt, this includes Clauses   2.2, 3.4, 
3.6, 3.7, Commercial Components,  and Additional Terms for Individual Remedies;   
6.4.2 Clauses   3.8, 3.10, 3.11, and 3.12 shall not apply; and  
6.4.3 All references to Appendix A shall be replaced by Annex 1 of Addendum A1 of the Agreement. 
 
7 Brazilian Data Transfers.  
 
7.1 Brazil Standard Contractual Clauses”, or “Brazil SCCs”: means one of the mechanisms for transferring personal data under the 
Brazil GDPA to international processing agents, adopted by the National Data Protection Authority (ANPD) under Resolution 
n. 19/2024 and its Annex II, available at ANPD’s official website: regulation-on-international-transfer-of-personal-data.pdf
, 
including the text from the modules of such clauses as specified in the Data Processing Agreement. 
7.2 In the event Personal Data processed under this Agreement is subject to the Brazil General Data Protection Act (Federal Law 
n. 13.709/2018 – Lei Geral de Proteção de Dados Pessoais – “LGPD”), particularly the provisions foreseen in article 33 to 36 
of the Brazil GDPA, Supplier agrees to comply with the obligations of a processor/data importer and all applicable processor 
and/or  data  importer  obligations  foreseen  in  the  LGPD  or  in  any  regulations  set  forth  by  the  National  Data  Protection  
Authority (“ANPD”), and agrees to add the language of the latest Standard Contractual Clause template available in Annex II, 
of Resolution 19/2024 of ANPD to regulate any transfer of personal data shared with Supplier for the purposes of providing 
goods and/or services foreseen on the applicable SOWs when outside of Brazil, or to third parties and/or processing agents 
located outside of Brazil. 
7.3 For purposes of the Brazil SCCs, Mastercard is the Controller/Data Exporter entity; the Supplier is the Processor/Data Importer 
entity as identified in the Agreement or in any SOW entered into under the Agreement. Supplier agrees that all information 
required  in  Clause  1.1.  of  the  Brazil  SCCs  (Annex  II  of  the  ANPD  Resolution  n.  19/2024),  will  be  the  one  provided  in  the  
corresponding  SOW.  All  data  required  of  the  Parties  as  qualification  of  the  Controller/data  exporter  or  Processor/data  
importer in Clause 1.1., whenever applicable, will be the following: i) Name, main address and e-mail address will the ones as 
filled  by  the  Parties  in  the  corresponding  SOW  and  Agreement;  ii)  Contact  for  the  data  subject  will  be  the  corresponding  
channel of communication provided by the Parties on their website and/or Privacy Notice. 
7.4 For purposes of Clauses 2 and 3 of the Brazil SCCs, the description of the international data transfers between the Parties will 
be  the  ones  as  foreseen  in  Annex  I  of  Addendum  A1  of  the  Agreement.  For  purposes  of  Clause  4.1.  of  the  Brazil  SCCs,  
Mastercard will be responsible, as the Controller/data exporter, for obligations foreseen in items “a”, “b” and “c”.  
7.4.1 Any additional information necessary for carrying out the international data transfers necessary for the execution of the 
Agreement,  under  the  obligations  foreseen  by  Resolution  n.  19/2024  and  its  Annex  II  of  ANPD,  will  be  negotiated  
between the Parties and/or disclosed in the SOW or Agreement, as necessary and applicable. 
7.5 The Parties agree that, upon adoption by the ANPD of a new version of the Brazil SCCs under Resolution n. 19/2024 or any 
subsequent regulation, such updated version shall automatically replace the previous version referenced in this Agreement, 
without the need for further amendment, and shall apply to all ongoing and future international data transfers governed by 
this Agreement. 
  

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 15 of 27
 
CONTROLLER TO CONTROLLER SPECIFIC TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
 
1. Privacy and  Data  Protection.  This  Data  Processing  Agreement  (“Data  Processing  Agreement”)   supplements  the  Master  
Supplier  Agreement  or  any  other  agreement  (the  “Agreement”)   between  Mastercard  and  Supplier  and  governs  the  Processing  of  
Personal  Data  subject  to  Privacy  and  Data  Protection  Law  for  the  Services  provided  in  this  Agreement.  If  Supplier  or  any  Supplier  
Personnel receives, has access to or otherwise Processes Personal Data or U.S. “sensitive personal data” as defined and in scope of 
the U.S. DSP (defined below),  Supplier shall comply with the requirements of the Data Processing Agreement.    This Data Processing 
Agreement is intended to satisfy legal requirements under Privacy and Data Protection Law.  
2. The terms used in this Data Processing Agreement have the meaning set forth herein. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined 
herein have the meaning given to them in the Agreement. Except as modified below, the terms of the Agreement remain in full force 
and effect. Addendum A2, Appendix 1 and Appendix 2 form an integral part of this Data Processing Agreement. 
3. Definitions. In this Data Processing Agreement, the following definitions apply: 
3.1. The  terms  “Controller,”  “Data  Subject,”  “Processor”  and  “Supervisory  Authority”  shall  have  the  meanings  given  to  them  under  
European Data Protection Law or as defined under the applicable Privacy and Data Protection Law. 
3.2. “Business Purpose” (or “Purpose") means the use of Personal Data for Mastercard or Supplier’s operational purposes, or other notified 
purposes, provided that the use of Personal Data is reasonably necessary and proportionate to achieve the operational purpose for 
which the Personal Data was collected or processed or for another operational purpose that is compatible with the context in which 
the Personal Data was collected. 
3.3. “Data Protection Rights” means all rights granted to individuals under applicable Privacy and Data Protection Law, which may include 
the  right  to  know,  the  right  of  access,  reproduction,  supplement,  rectification,  or  erasure  to  or  of  Personal  Data,  the  right  to  raise  
complaints,  the  rights  relating  to  data  portability,  restriction  on  Processing,  and  objection  to  the  Processing  (including  the  right  to  
withdraw consent); and the rights relating to automated decision-making and indemnification against misuse of Personal Data. 
3.4. "Data Subject" means a natural person whose Personal Data are Processed in the context of the Agreement. 
3.5. “Europe” means the EEA, Switzerland, Monaco and the United Kingdom. 
3.6. “EU Personal Data” means the processing of personal data to which data protection legislation of the European Union, or of a Member 
State of the European Union or European Economic Area, was applicable prior to its processing by the Supplier or Mastercard. 
3.7. “European  Data  Protection  Law”  means  the  GDPR,  the  UK  GDPR  and  the  e-Privacy  Directive  2002/58/EC  (as  amended  by  Directive  
2009/136/EC, and as amended and replaced from time to time) and their respective national implementing legislations (as amended 
and  replaced  from  time  to  time);  the  Swiss  Federal  Data  Protection  Act  and  its  implementing  ordinances  (“FADP”)  (as  amended  and  
replaced from time to time); the Monaco Data Protection Act (as amended and replaced from time to time); the UK Data Protection 
Law, as defined in Section 1.11 below (as amended and replaced from time to time); and any other data protection law of the European 
Union,    the  European  Economic  Area  (“EEA”)  or  their  respective  member  states,  Switzerland,  Monaco  and  the  United  Kingdom  (as  
amended and replaced from time to time).  
3.8. “EU  Standard  Contractual  Clauses”  or “SCCs” means:  in  respect  of  the  EU  Personal  Data,  the  standard  contractual  clauses  for  the  
transfer of personal data to third countries pursuant to GDPR, adopted by the European Commission under Commission Implementing 
Decision (EU) 2021/914 including the text from the modules of such clauses as specified in this Agreement; and in respect of Swiss 
Personal  Data,  the  same,  as  adapted  to  satisfy  Swiss  law  requirements  as  specified  in  Section  6.1.1.8  of  this  Data  Processing 
Agreement. 
3.9. “Existing Agreement” means any written agreement or data processing agreement, or any other relevant agreement entered into by 
Mastercard and Supplier which involve Processing of Personal Data subject to EU GDPR and/or UK GDPR and/or FADP in the context 
of the Services. 
3.10. “GDPR” means the EU General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 (as amended and replaced from time to time). 
3.11. “Mastercard Binding Corporate Rules” (or ”Mastercard BCRs”) means the Mastercard Binding Corporate Rules as approved by the 
data protection authorities,  available at: https://www.mastercard.us/content/dam/mccom/global/documents/mastercard-bcrs.pdf
; 
3.12. “Personal Data” or “Personal Information” (which may be used interchangeably in this Agreement) means any information relating 
to an identified or identifiable individual, whether directly or indirectly identifiable, including but not limited to contact information, 
demographic  information,  passport  number,  Social  Security  number  or  other  national  identification  number,  bank  account  

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 16 of 27
 
information, Primary Account Number, and authentication information (e.g., identification codes, passwords) or as defined under the 
applicable Privacy and Data Protection Law. 
3.13. “Personal Data Breach” means a breach of security leading to the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized 
disclosure of, access to, or other unauthorized Processing of Personal Data transmitted, stored or otherwise Processed or as defined 
under the applicable Privacy and Data Protection Law. 
3.14. “Privacy and Data Protection Law” means any Law, statute, declaration, decree, legislation, enactment, order, ordinance, regulation, 
guideline, rule, circular (as amended and replaced from time to time) which relates to the protection of individuals with regards to the 
Processing of Personal Data to which the Parties are subject, including but not limited to the GDPR, the e-Privacy Directive 2002/58/EC 
(as amended by Directive 2009/136/EC, and as amended and replaced from time to time) and their respective national implementing 
legislations; the Swiss Federal Data Protection Act and its implementing ordinances (“FADP”); the Monaco Data Protection Act; the 
UK  General  Data  Protection  Regulation;  and  any  other  data  protection  law  of  the  European  Union,    the  European  Economic  Area 
(“EEA”) or their respective member states, Switzerland, Monaco and the United Kingdom, all as amended and replaced from time to 
time. The definition includes also collectively, all U.S. state privacy laws and their implementing regulations, as amended or superseded 
from  time  to  time,  that  apply  generally  to  the  Processing  of  individuals’  Personal  Data,  including  but  not  limited  to  the  California  
Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (California Civil Code §§ 1798.100 to 1798.199) and its implementing regulations (“CCPA”), as amended 
including  by  the  California  Privacy  Rights  Act  (“CPRA”);  the  U.S.  Gramm-Leach-Bliley  Act;  Executive  Order  14117  and  rules  issues  
thereunder,  including  28  C.F.R.  Part  202  (the  “U.S.  DSP”),  as  amended  from  time  to  time;  the  Brazil  General  Data  Protection  Act 
(Federal Law n. 13.709/2018, as amended and replaced from time to time), or “Brazil GDPA” or “LGPD”; ; the South Africa Protection 
of Personal Information Act; the Personal Information Protection Law of the PRC and other PRC Laws relating to privacy and protection 
of Personal information; Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Personal Data Protection Law (amended 2023) and its Implementing Regulations; 
Nigeria Data Protection Act 2023 and its subsidiary regulations and guidelines, Turkeye Law on the Protection Of Personal Data (DPL) 
No. 6698  and its regulations and successors; Canadian federal and provincial laws governing the processing of Personal Information; 
Japan’s  Act  on  the  Protection  of  Personal  Information,   Thailand's  Personal  Data  Protection  Act  B.E.  2562  (2019) and  its  relevant  
subordinate  regulations;  including  the  Personal  Information  Protection  and  Electronic  Documents  Act  and  substantially  similar  
provincial laws; Laws regulating unsolicited email, telephone, and text message communications; security breach notification Laws; 
Laws imposing minimum security requirements; Laws requiring the secure disposal of records containing certain Personal Data; Laws 
governing  the  portability  and/or  cross-border  transfer  of  Personal  Data;  and  all  other  similar  international,  federal,  state,  national,  
provincial, and local requirements; each as applicable.  
3.15. “Process” or “Processing” or “Processing of Personal Data” means any operation or set of operations which is performed on Personal 
Data or on sets of Personal Data, whether or not by automated means, such as collection, recording, organization, structuring, storage, 
adaptation  or  alteration,  retrieval,  consultation,  use,  disclosure  by  transmission,  dissemination  or  otherwise  making  available,  
alignment or combination, restriction, erasure or destruction or as defined under the applicable Privacy and Data Protection Law. 
3.16. “Sell” means selling, renting, releasing, disclosing, disseminating, making available, transferring, or otherwise communicating orally, 
in  writing,  or  by  electronic  or  other  means,  a  consumer’s  Personal  Data  by  the  business  to  another  business  or  a  third  party  for 
monetary or other valuable consideration. 
3.17. “Sensitive  Data”  (or  “Sensitive  Personal  Data,”  which  may  be  used  interchangeably  in  this  Agreement)  means  any  Personal  Data  
considered to be sensitive according to applicable Privacy and Data Protection Law and may include data revealing racial or ethnic 
origin, political opinions, cult, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, criminal records, genetic data, biometric 
data, data concerning health or data concerning a natural person’s sex life or sexual orientation, as well as any other type of data that 
will be considered to be sensitive according to any Privacy and Data Protection Law. 
3.18. “Sub-Processor” means the entity engaged by a Party or any further sub-contractor to Process Personal Data on behalf of and under 
the instructions of such Party. 
3.19. “Swiss Personal Data” means personal data to which FADP was applicable prior to its processing by the Supplier or Mastercard. 
 
3.20. “UK  Addendum”  means  the  International  Data  Transfer  Addendum  to  the  EU  Standard  Contractual  Clauses  issued  by  the  UK  
Information Commissioner under Section 119A of the UK Data Protection Act 2018 (version B1.0, in force March 21, 2022); 
 
3.21. “UK Data Protection Law” means (i) the Data Protection Act 2018; (ii) the GDPR as amended by the Data Protection Act 2018 and the 
Data Protection, Privacy and Electronic Communications (Amendments etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 and 2020, as relevant; and (iii) 
the e-Privacy Directive 2002/58/EC (as amended by Directive 2009/136/EC) as transposed into UK national law. 
 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 17 of 27
 
3.22. “UK GDPR” means the UK General Data Protection Regulation, as amended by the UK Data Protection Act, and as it may be amended 
from time to time. 
 
3.23. “UK Standard Contractual Clauses” or “UK SCCs” means the UK International Data Transfer Addendum to the EU Commission Standard 
Contractual  Clauses,  issued  under  Section  119A  of  the  Data  Protection  Act  2018  by  the  Information  Commissioner  and  laid  before  
Parliament on 2 February 2022 in force 21 March 2022. 
 
4. General Privacy and Data Protection. 
4.1. Scope.  The Parties will comply with their respective obligations as set forth in this Agreement without regard to the residency 
or location (permanent or otherwise) of any individual to whom any Personal Data relates, the location of a Party’s operations, the 
extent to which it has targeted particular geographic regions or jurisdictions, or any other factors. 
4.2. Compliance with Privacy and Data Protection Law.  Both Parties represent and warrant that they will comply with Privacy 
and Data Protection Law when Processing Personal Data in the context of the Services, and that they will perform their obligations 
under this Agreement in compliance with Privacy and Data Protection Law. 
4.3. Roles of the Parties. The Parties acknowledge and confirm that each Party is responsible for the Processing of Personal Data 
for its own Business Purposes (as specified in Annex 1 of Addendum A2 of the Agreement or respective SOW) in the context of the 
Services specified in the Agreement. Each Party has the sole and exclusive authority to determine the Business Purposes and means 
of  the  Processing  of  Personal  Data.  The  Parties  acknowledge  and  confirm  that  each  Party  is  a  Business  or,  under  European  Data 
Protection  Law,  a  Controller,  for  the  Processing  of  Personal  Data  for  its  own  Business  Purposes  in  the  context  of  the  Services.  The  
Parties further confirm that neither Party acts as a Service Provider nor, under European Data Protection Law, a Processor on behalf 
of the other Party; and that each Party is an independent Controller; and that the Agreement does not create a joint-Controllership or 
a Controller-Processor relationship between the Parties. Supplier warrants that it will not a) any Personal Data that is disclosed to it 
under  this  Agreement  or  any  data  derived  or  inferred  from  such Personal  Data;  or  (b)  Process  such  Personal  Data  to  develop  or  
promote competing services. 
4.4. Obligations of the Parties. Each Party represents and warrants that, in relation to the Processing of Personal Data for its own 
Business Purposes in the context of the Services, that it will:  
4.4.1. Notice and Consent. rely on a valid legal ground under Privacy and Data Protection Law for each of its own 
Business Purposes in the context of the Services, including provide appropriate notice to and/or seek consents from Data Subjects as 
required or appropriate under Privacy and Data Protection Law. 
4.4.2. Transfers. ensure that, for any transfers of Personal Data in the context of the Services, the Personal Data 
will be protected with the same level of protection as provided under the Privacy and Data Protection Laws and this Agreement and 
it will implement any data transfer mechanism as required under Privacy and Data Protection Law.  
4.4.3. Data Subject Rights. put in place a mechanism to allow a Data Subject to exercise their rights relative to 
their Personal Data under applicable Privacy and Data Protection Law. 
4.4.4. Cooperation  and  Assistance.  cooperate  with  the  other  Party  in  good  faith  to  fulfil  their  respective  data  
protection compliance obligations under Privacy and Data Protection Law, including complying with individuals’ requests to exercise 
their Data Protection Rights and replying to investigations and inquiries from competent Government Bodies. 
4.4.5. Data Retention. retain Personal Data until such time, no longer than is necessary for the Purposes for which 
the Personal Data are Processed unless a longer retention is required or allowed under applicable Law. 
4.4.6. Termination. upon termination of the Agreement and/or relevant SOW, or as set forth within the relevant 
SOW, comply with Mastercard’s request, and securely delete existing copies of the Personal Data unless applicable local Law requires 
storage of the Personal Data, in which case Supplier will protect the confidentiality of the Personal Data, will not actively Pr  ocess the 
Personal Data anymore, and will continue to comply with this Agreement. 
4.5. Additionally, when processing EU Personal Data, each Party represents and warrants that, in relation to the Processing of said 
Personal Data for its own Purposes in the context of the Services, it acts as a Controller and that it: 
4.5.1. complies with European Data Protection Law in respect of Processing of Personal Data (lawfulness of processing);
 
4.5.2. relies  on  a  valid  legal  ground,  as  required,  under  European  Data  Protection  Law  for  each  of  its  own  Purposes,  
including obtaining Data Subjects’ appropriate consent if required or appropriate under European Data Protection Law (legal ground);
 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 18 of 27
 
4.5.3. provides appropriate notice to the Data Subjects regarding (1) the Processing of Personal Data for its own Purposes, 
in  a  timely  manner  and  at  the  minimum  with  the  elements  required  under  European  Data  Protection  Law,  (2),  as  appropriate,  the 
existence of Mastercard BCRs (notice);
 
4.5.4. takes  reasonable  steps  to  ensure  that  Personal  Data  is  accurate,  complete  and  current;  adequate,  relevant  and  
limited to what is necessary in relation to the Purposes for which they are processed; and kept in a form which permits identification 
of Data Subjects for no longer than is necessary for the Purposes for which the Personal Data are processed unless a longer retention 
is required or allowed under applicable Law (accuracy, data minimization and data retention);  
 
4.5.5. implements appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure, and to be able to demonstrate, that the 
Processing of Personal Data is performed in accordance with European Data Protection Law (accountability); 
 
4.5.6. responds  to  Data  Subject  requests  to  exercise  their  rights  granted  to  individuals  under  European  Data  Protection  
Law, including but not limited to the right of (a) access, (b) rectification, (c) erasure, (d) data portability, (e) restriction of Processing, 
and (f) objection to the Processing in accordance with European Data Protection Law (data subjects’ rights); 
 
4.5.7. Cooperates  with  the  other  Party  to  fulfil  their  respective  data  protection  compliance  obligations  under  European  
Data Protection Law (cooperation); and
 
4.5.8. has not purposefully created back doors or similar programming that could be used to access the Personal Data in 
transit or at rest, or otherwise created business processes to facilitate mass and indiscriminate access to Personal Data by Government 
Agencies (“government data request”)   
4.6. Notification Obligations. Supplier agrees and warrants that it will immediately inform Mastercard, in writing of any request, 
question, objection, complaint, investigation or any other inquiry, received from any individual, regulator, public authority or other 
Government Body of whatever jurisdiction or other Government Body, that relates to Personal Data unless otherwise restricted by 
applicable Law. Supplier will provide a copy of any such requests within 48 (forty eight) hours (or a shorter period of time if required 
by  Privacy  and  Data  Protection  Law)  of  receipt  by  email  to  privacyanddataprotection@mastercard.com
  and  will  respond  to  such  
requests only in accordance with Mastercard’s prior written authorization, unless otherwise prohibited by applicable Privacy and Data 
Protection Law. 
4.7. Accountability.  Supplier  agrees  and  warrants  that  it  will  implement  appropriate  administrative,  technical,  operational  and  
organizational measures to ensure, and to be able to demonstrate, that the Processing of Personal Data is performed in accordance 
with this Agreement and applicable Privacy and Data Protection Law. 
4.8. Where Mastercard discloses or makes available de-identified data to Supplier, Supplier represents and warrants it will not 
attempt to re-identify said data. 
5. Data Disclosures.  
The Parties represent and warrant that they will only disclose Personal Data Processed to a third party in the context of the Services 
in accordance with Privacy and Data Protection Law and with this Agreement and will require such third party in writing to comply 
with Privacy and Data Protection Law and with the same privacy and data protection obligations as are imposed on the disclosing Party 
by this Agreement,  as appropriate and relevant, unless it is not possible to do so, such as where the data recipient is    a Governmental 
Body.   
6. Data Transfers. Each Party represents and warrants the following, in relation to the Processing of Personal Data for its own Purposes 
in the context of the Services:  
 
6.1. EU/Swiss Data Transfers 
 
6.1.1. To  the  extent  a  Party  receives  Personal  Data  subject  to  the  GDPR  or  FADP  from  the  other  Party  and  Processes  (i)    EU  
Personal Data in a country that is not subject to a European Commission adequacy decision or other adequacy finding or 
adequate safeguards referred to in Section 6.3 or (ii) Swiss Personal Data in a country that is not considered to provide for 
adequate data protection legislation by the Federal Council or subject to adequate safeguards referred to in Clause 6.3, 
the Parties agree that such transfers will be governed by the SCCs, which are hereby incorporated into this Addendum by 
reference, and completed as follows: 
 
6.1.1.1. the signature to and dating of this Agreement shall constitute all required signatures and dates for the SCCs; 
 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 19 of 27
 
6.1.1.2. the text from module one of the SCCs shall apply and no other modules or any clauses marked as optional 
in the SCCs shall apply; 
 
6.1.1.3. the  information  as  required  by  Annex  I  of  the  SCCs  is  as  set  out  in  Annex  1  to  Addendum  A2  of  the  
Agreement  and the signatures for the purpose of Annex I of the SCCs are the signatures to this Agreement and 
the date is the date of this Agreement; 
 
6.1.1.4. the technical and organisational measures required by Annex II of the SCCs are as set out in Appendix 1 of 
Controller to Controller terms of this Data Processing Agreement;  
 
6.1.1.5. any notice provided under clause 14(e) or clause 16 of the SCCs shall be provided according to the timing 
and to the email address as set out in Clause 4.6 of this Data Processing Agreement; 
 
6.1.1.6. for the purposes of clause 17 of the SCCs, option 1 applies and the SCCs shall be governed by the Laws of 
Belgium and for the purposes of clause 18 of the SCCs, the courts of Belgium shall have jurisdiction in relation to 
the SCCs; and 
 
6.1.1.7. notwithstanding anything contrary in this Agreement or the Existing Agreement, clause 5 of the SCCs shall 
apply and, as such, in the event of a contradiction between the SCCs and the provisions of this Agreement or the 
Existing Agreement, the SCCs shall prevail.  
 
6.1.1.8. In respect of Swiss Personal Data, (i) in deviation of clause 13 (a) of the SCCs in connection with its Annex 
I.C., the competent supervisory authority in Annex I.C. shall be the Swiss Federal Data Protection and Information 
Commissioner and all references to the “competent supervisory authority” shall be interpreted accordingly; (ii) 
in  deviation  of  clause  17  of  the  SCCs,  the  SCCs,  shall  be  governed  by  and  construed  in  accordance  with  the  
substantive laws of Switzerland; (iii) in deviation of clause 18 (a) and (b) of the SCCs, any disputes arising from 
the  SCCs  shall  be  subject  to  the  exclusive  jurisdiction  of  the  ordinary  courts  of  Zurich,  canton  of  Zurich,  
Switzerland; (iv) any references to “Regulation (EU) 2016/679”” and specific articles thereof in the SCCs should 
be  interpreted  to  refer  to  the  FADP  and  its  corresponding  provisions,  as  applicable;  (v)  in  supplementation  of  
clause 8.7 of the SCCs, the term “sensitive data” shall include data on the intimate sphere, trade union related 
views or activities, political, religious or philosophical activities, criminal proceedings, administrative proceedings 
and sanctions and social security measures; and (vi) the term “member state” shall not be interpreted in such a 
manner as to exclude data subjects in Switzerland from the possibility of bringing legal proceedings against the 
data  exporter  and/or  data  importer  in  their  place  of  habitual  residence  (Switzerland)  and    clause  18(c)  of  the  
SCCs shall be interpreted accordingly. 
 
6.2. UK Data Transfers 
 
To the extent a Party receives any Personal Data subject to the UK GDPR from the other Party and Processes such Personal Data in a 
country that is not subject to a UK government adequacy decision (“UK Transfers”), the Parties agree that such UK Transfers shall be 
governed by the UK Addendum, which is hereby incorporated into this Addendum by reference, but as permitted by clause 17 of such 
addendum, the parties agree to change the format of the information set out in Part 1 of the addendum so that: (i) the details of the 
parties as set out in Table 1, and their signatures are included in the Annex 2 of Addendum A2 of the Agreement ; (ii) in Table 2, the 
first option is selected and the “Approved EU SCCs” are those incorporated into this DPA as per Section 6.1; (iii) in Table 3, “Annex 1A, 
1B and 2 to the Approved EU SCCs” are Annex 2 to Addendum A2 of the Agreement and Appendix 1 of Controller to Controller terms 
of this Data Processing Addendum, respectively; and (iv) in Table 4, (iv) The UK Transfers shall be governed by the laws of England and 
Wales and any dispute arising from it shall be resolved by the courts of England and Wales. The Parties agree, notwithstanding anything 
to  the  contrary  in  the  Existing  Agreement,  that  Mastercard  may  make  any  amendments  to  the  application  of  the  EU  Standard  
Contractual  Clauses,  the  application  of  the  UK  Addendum  and/or  any  other  amendments  to  this  Clause  6.2  of  this  Data  Processing  

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 20 of 27
 
Agreement in respect of UK Transfers as it deems necessary to implement any replacement standard contractual clauses approved for 
use  under  Article  46  of  the  UK  GDPR  by  notifying  the  Supplier  of  any  such  amendments  to  this  Agreement  in  writing  and  such  
amendments shall be effective upon such notice. 
 
6.3. Both Parties may transfer the Personal Data Processed in connection with the Services outside of Europe in accordance with European 
Data  Protection  Law,  provided  that  the  Personal  Data  are  transferred  to  a  country  which  provides  an  adequate  level  of  protection 
under  European  Data  Protection  Law  or  to  a  data  recipient  which  has  implemented  adequate  safeguards  under  European  Data  
Protection Law such as approved Binding Corporate Rules or SCCs. Mastercard will abide by the Mastercard BCRs when Processing 
Personal Data for its own Purposes in the context of the Services. Supplier acknowledges that Mastercard may transfer Swiss Personal 
Data globally. 
 
6.4. Data Disclosures.  
 
 The Parties will only disclose Personal Data Processed to a third party in the context of the Services in accordance with European Data 
Protection Law and will require such third party in writing to comply with European Data Protection Law as well as the same obligations 
as are imposed on by this Addendum, as appropriate and relevant, unless it is not possible to do so, such as where the data recipient 
is a governmental authority.   
7. Security of the Processing, Confidentiality, and Personal Data Breach Notification. Supplier agrees and warrants that: 
7.1. it has implemented and maintains a comprehensive written information security program that complies with Privacy and Data 
Protection Law and Appendix 1 of Controller to Controller terms of this Data Processing Agreement and, to the extent Supplier 
Processes  payment  card  information,  the  applicable  Payment  Card  Industry  Data  Security  Standards.  Supplier’s  written  
information security program must include appropriate technical, operational and organizational measures to to ensure a level 
of security appropriate to the risk, which includes at the minimum the security measures listed in Appendix 1 of Controller to 
Controller terms of  this Data Processing Agreement and as appropriate: (a) the pseudonymization and encryption of Personal 
Data  (including  the  encryption  of  Primary  Account  Number  (PAN)  in  transit  and  in  rest);  (b)  the  ability  to  ensure  the  ongoing 
confidentiality,  integrity,  availability  and  resilience  of  Processing  systems  and  services  (including  by  appropriately  maintaining  
and  reviewing  logs,  performing  periodic  password  renewal  and  applying  multi-factor  authentication,  in  accordance  with  the  
controls referenced in Appendix 1 of Controller to Controller terms of  this Data Processing Agreement;  (c) the ability to restore 
the availability and access to Personal Data in a timely manner in the event of a physical or technical incident; and (d) a process 
for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of technical and organizational measures for ensuring the security 
of the Processing of Personal Data.  In assessing the appropriate level of security, Supplier must take into account the state of 
the art, the costs of implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of Processing of Personal Data as well as the 
risk  of  varying  likelihood  and  severity  for  the  rights  and  freedoms  of  Data  Subjects  and  the  risks  that  are  presented  by  the  
Processing  of  Personal  Data,  in  particular  from  accidental  or  unlawful  destruction,  deletion,  loss,  alteration,  unauthorized  
disclosure of, or access to Personal Data transmitted, stored or otherwise Processed (“Information Security Program”). 
7.2. Supplier’s  Information  Security  Program  must,  among  other  things,  include  regular  testing  or  otherwise  monitoring  of  the  
effectiveness  of  Supplier’s  information  safeguards.  Supplier  undertakes  to  notify  Mastercard  of  any  technical,  operational,  
organizational or other change having a material impact on the security, confidentiality or protection of Personal Data Processed 
in the context of the Services, no less than 15 (fifteen) working days prior to implementing any such change.  Supplier agrees to 
submit its Information Security Program to an audit in accordance with the Data Protection and Security Audit as provided under 
Section 8 of this Data Processing Agreement.    
7.3. Supplier must take steps to ensure that any person (whether an individual, a legal entity or any other organization) acting under 
its authority who Processes or in any way has access to Personal Data in the context of the Services (including any person engaged 
by Supplier or any further Sub-Processor) is only granted access to Personal Data on a need-to-know basis and is subject to a duly 
enforceable contractual or statutory confidentiality obligation (“confidentiality”). 
7.4. Supplier must  notify Mastercard of any Personal Data Breach or where there is a reasonable suspicion that such a Personal Data 
Breach has occurred i)  by contacting the Mastercard Security Operations Center at +1-636-722-3600 or 1-800-358-3060 (US toll-
free number) and/or; ii) in writing to  SOC@mastercard.com,  TPRM@mastercard.com and 
the account manager or main contact 
person  of  Mastercard  specified  under  this  Agreement,  without  undue  delay,  and  no  later  than  24  (twenty-four)  hours  (or  a  
shorter period of time if required by Privacy and Data Protection Law) after having become first aware of a Personal Data Breach
 
or the reasonable suspicion of a Personal Data Breach, whichever is the earlier. Such notice will summarize in reasonable detail 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 21 of 27
 
the effect on Mastercard, if known, of the Personal Data Breach, the corrective actions taken, and other information as required 
by Privacy and Data Protection Law. Supplier agrees to cooperate with Mastercard in all reasonable and lawful efforts to prevent, 
mitigate,  investigate  or  rectify  such  Personal  Data  Breach  including  in  relation  to  any  forensic  investigation  or  related  audit  
requested by Mastercard. Supplier will assist Mastercard in complying with its own obligations under Privacy and Data Protection 
Law to notify a Personal Data Breach. In case of conflict between this Section 7.4 and Section 8, this Section 7.4 will prevail.  
7.5. Except  to  the  extent  prohibited  by  applicable  legal,  regulatory  or  law  enforcement  requirements,  Supplier  must  obtain  the  
written approval of Mastercard prior to the publication or communication of any filings, communications, notices, press releases 
or reports related to any Personal Data Breach that expressly mention Mastercard or its Affiliates. Supplier acknowledges and 
agrees that a violation of this section, or the occurrence of any Personal Data Breach, may cause immediate and irreparable harm 
to  Mastercard  for  which  damages  may  not  constitute  an  adequate  remedy.    Therefore,  Supplier  agrees  that  Mastercard  may  
seek injunctive or other equitable relief for any such violation or incident, in addition to its remedies at law, without proof of 
actual damages (“personal data breaches”). 
 
8. Data Protection and Data Security Audit 
8.1. Upon request by Mastercard and subject to Mastercard’s reasonable discretion, Supplier allows Mastercard or an inspection 
body  composed  of  independent  members  to  audit  and  review  Supplier’s  Information  Security  Program,  data  processing  
facilities,  and  data  protection  compliance  program  to  verify  compliance  with  this  Agreement  (including  with  the  security  
measures referenced in Appendix 1 of Controller to Controller terms of this Data Processing Agreement) and Privacy and Data 
Protection Law (“Data Protection and Security Audit”).   
8.2. The Parties will mutually agree upon the scope, timing, and duration of the Data Protection and Security Audit.  Such Data 
Protection and Security Audit may be conducted by an independent third party auditor designated by Mastercard, in which 
case Supplier will within a reasonable time make available to Mastercard (a) the result of the  Data Protection and Security 
Audit  and  (b)  written  confirmation  that  the  Data  Protection  and  Security  Audit  has  not  revealed  any  vulnerability  or  non-
compliance, or, to the extent that any such vulnerability or non-compliance was revealed, written proof that it has been fully 
remedied.   
8.3. Supplier  agrees  to  fully  cooperate  with  such  Data  Protection  and  Security  Audit  and  implement  all  state  of  art  industry  
standards to its Information Security Program, data processing facilities and data protection compliance program that, as a 
result of the Data Protection and Security Audit, are required to ensure Supplier’s compliance with this Agreement and Privacy 
and Data Protection Law. Supplier’s failure to allow or cooperate to any Data Protection and Security Audit, implement any 
required  changes  to  its  Information  Security  Program,  data  Processing  facilities  and  other  data  protection  compliance  
program and to provide the documentation as required in section 8.2, shall entitle Mastercard to suspend and terminate any 
further Personal Data Processing and terminate the Agreement, if doing so is required to or would be reasonably expected 
by  Mastercard  to  be  required  to  comply  with  the  Agreement,  Privacy  and  Data  Protection  Law,  and  as  applicable  with  
Mastercard’s own obligations. 
8.4. Upon request by Mastercard, Supplier must provide a certification of compliance with applicable Privacy and Data Protection 
Law and information security standards, such as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI-DSS) and SOC2 and 
ISO certifications, as applicable (“Certification of Compliance”). 
 
9. Liability  
9.1.1. Each Party agrees that, in relation to the Processing of Personal Data for its own Purposes, it is fully liable towards 
Data Subjects, competent Government Bodies or other third parties for the entire compensation, damages or fines resulting from its 
own violation of Privacy and Data Protection Law or of this Agreement.  
9.1.2. The Parties agree that if Mastercard has paid compensation, damages or fines, has been imposed an obligation to 
pay,  or  has  otherwise  been  held  liable  for  payment  of  any  compensation,  damages  or  fines  to  any  Data  Subject,  competent  
Government  Body  or  other  third  party  due  to  any  violations  or  breaches  by  Supplier  of  Privacy  and  Data  Protection  Law  or  of  this  
Agreement (including but not limited to failure to provide the required cooperation and assistance), Mastercard is entitled to claim 
back  from  Supplier  that  part  of  the  compensation,  damages  or  fines,  corresponding  to  Supplier’s  part  of  responsibility  for  the  
compensation, damages or fines. 
10. Applicable law and jurisdiction. Subject to clauses 6.1.1.8 and 6.2.1, The Parties agree that the Processing will be governed by the Law 
of Belgium and that any dispute will be submitted to the Courts of Brussels. 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 22 of 27
 
11. Parties to Data Processing Agreement. Where the Processing of Personal Data is subject to EU Data Protection Laws or where EU SCCs 
apply, Mastercard Europe S.A. is the signatory to this Exhibit and the EU SCCs. 
12. Change  in  Law.  Mastercard  will  amend  this  Data  Processing  Agreement  as  reasonably  necessary  from  time  to  time  to  update  and  
address the requirements of Privacy and Data Protection Law.  
 
 
 
  

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 23 of 27
 
APPENDIX 1: SECURITY MEASURES 
 
TECHNICAL  AND  ORGANISATIONAL  MEASURES  INCLUDING  TECHNICAL  AND  ORGANISATIONAL  MEASURES  TO  ENSURE  THE  
SECURITY OF THE DATA 
 
Description of the technical and organisational measures implemented by the data importer(s) (including any relevant certifications) 
to ensure an appropriate level of security, taking into account the nature, scope, context and purpose of the processing, and the risks 
for the rights and freedoms of natural persons. 
 
Supplier will, as a minimum, implement the security measures listed in “Security Requirements for Suppliers and Business Partners” 
at https://procurement.mastercard.com/information_suppliers.html, as may be updated from time to time. These security measures 
must be implemented in addition to any standards, certifications or audit requirements that Supplier adheres to (or has been certified 
to) with regard to the Services or Deliverables, including but not limited to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (PCI-
DSS) and ISO certifications, as applicable.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 24 of 27
 
 
APPENDIX 2: REGION SPECIFIC PRIVACY TERMS 
 
1. China  Data  Processing  Addendum.  The  Parties  agree  that  they  will  amend  and  supplement  the  terms  as  provided  by  
Mastercard for the purposes of compliance with Privacy and Data Protection Law of the PRC if there is cross border transfer 
of Personal Data subject to the Privacy and Data Protection Law of the People’s Republic of China (“China” or the “PRC”, for 
the purposes of this Agreement, exclusive of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Macau Special Administrative Region 
and Taiwan). 
2. Japan Data Processing Addendum. Where (I) Mastercard conducts, in Japan, Processing of Personal Data of data subjects 
located  in  or  out  of  Japan,  and  Supplier  conducts  in  or  out  of  Japan  Processing  of  the  said  Personal  Data  on  behalf  of  
Mastercard  or  Mastercard’s  customers  pursuant  to  this  Agreement,  or  (II)  Supplier  Processes,  in  or  out  of  Japan,  Personal  
Data  of  data  subjects  located  in  Japan  pursuant  to  this  Agreement, the  following  terms  as  set  forth  below  shall  apply  in  
addition to terms in this Agreement for the purposes of compliance with Privacy and Data Protection Law of Japan. 
 
2.1 Definitions. The following terms have the meanings set out below for this Addendum; provided, however, if certain 
information falls under “Personal Information”, “Personal Data” or “Sensitive Data” (or “Sensitive Personal Data”) as 
originally defined in this Agreement or Section 1 of this Agreement but does not fall under such terms as defined below, 
the  information  is  still  deemed  to  fall  under  such  terms  (for  example,  if  a  Primary  Account  Number  is  “Personal  
Information” and “Personal Data” as defined this Agreement but is not included in such terms as defined below, it is 
deemed to be) in applying this Agreement. The following terms have the meanings set out below for this Addendum: 
2.1.1 “Person-related Information” shall have the meaning given to “person-related information” (kojin kanren joho) under Privacy 
and Data Protection Law of Japan. 
 
2.2 Determination of “Personal Information” and “Personal Data” by Mastercard. Even if information to be transferred from 
Mastercard to Supplier is Personal information and Personal Data as defined in Section 2 above for Mastercard because 
Mastercard  can  identify  a  specific  data  subject  by  readily  collating  with  other  information  held  by  Mastercard  but  the  
information is not Personal Information or Personal Data as defined at the Section 2 for Supplier because Supplier cannot 
identify the data subject due to not holding such other information for collation, this Agreement applies to Supplier as if it 
Processes the information as Personal Information and Personal Data. 
 
2.3 Purposes  of  the  Processing  of  Personal  Information.  Notwithstanding  the  generality  of  the  Business  Purpose  
stipulated in this Agreement for which Supplier must Process Personal Data, Supplier agrees to Process Personal Data 
only  and  strictly  for  the  purposes  as  stipulated  in  Annex  1  of  Addendum  2  of  the    Agreement  (Description  of  the  
Processing Activities), and such purposes as stipulated therein should be interpreted in such a manner that is strictly 
and narrowly tailored for Supplier’s performance of the Services hereunder. 
 
2.4 Publication of the Purposes of Use. Supplier must have disclosed to the public, on its publicly available privacy policy 
or  otherwise,  the  purposes  of  use  of  Personal  Information  that  include  the  purposes  as  stipulated  in Annex 1  of 
Addendum A2   of the Agreement and any applicable SOW(s) (Description of the Processing Activities) prior to receiving 
Personal Data which it Processes pursuant to this Agreement. 
 
2.5 Prohibition  of  Inappropriate  Manner  of  Processing  Personal  Data.  Supplier  shall  not  Process  Personal  Data  in  any  
manner that may facilitate or encourage any illegal or unjust acts. 
 
2.6 Maintenance of Accuracy of Personal Data. Supplier must take measures to keep Personal Data accurate and up-to-
date, including establishment and implementation of internal rules of referencing and confirmation when entering or 
recording  Personal  Data  on  database,  process  of  correction  of  errors  when  they  are  found,  periodical  renewals  of  
records, and setting out rules on retention periods. 
 
2.7 International Data Transfers. In addition to being subject to Section 4.4.2 of this Controller-to-Controller Agreement 
in connection with any Transfers, Supplier shall not transfer Personal Data to third parties in any country other than 
Japan unless it satisfies one of the following requirements as set out in Article 28(1) of Japan’s Act on the Protection 
of Personal Information (the “APPI”): 
2.7.1 The country of the transferee has received an adequacy decision by Personal Information Protection Commission of  Japan; 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 25 of 27
 
2.7.2 The Data Subject’s consent to the international data transfer has been obtained upon the Data Subject’s being informed of 
certain information concerning the personal data protection law of the foreign country and other information as set out in 
Article 28(2) of the APPI; or 
2.7.3 Adequacy measures to ensure the transferee’s compliance with the data protection standard of the APPI, as set out in Article 
28(1) of the APPI, have been and will continue to be implemented.  
 
2.8 Periodical Confirmation concerning Information Security Program. If Supplier is located in a country other than Japan 
(except  for  countries  which  have  received  adequacy  decisions  by  Personal  Information  Protection  Commission  of  
Japan),  Supplier  agrees,  without  prejudice  to  the  generality  of  Section  8 of  this  Agreement,  that  the  following  shall  
occur annually at the least, or more frequently if requested by Mastercard, in order to ensure Mastercard’s ability to 
comply with its obligations to provide data subjects with information about adequacy measures upon their requests 
under Privacy and Data Protection Law of Japan: 
 
2.8.1 Supplier shall report to Mastercard the status of its implementation of Information Security Program (as defined in Section 
7.1 of this Agreement) as requested by Mastercard, and/or fully cooperate with Data Protection and Security Audit (as defined 
in Section 8.1 of this Agreement) by Mastercard in accordance with Section 8 of this Agreement; and 
2.8.2 Supplier shall investigate in a reasonable manner and inform Mastercard (i) whether any Laws, rules or systems of the country 
of Supplier  that may adversely affect Supplier’s implementation of Information Security Program (including but not limited 
to  the  country’s  governments’  power  to  broadly  access  Personal  Data  or  mandatory  requirements  for  Personal  Data  
localization and retention against data subjects’ rights to deletion) exists or not and (ii) if so, the content of such Laws, rules 
of systems. 
 
3 U.S. Specific Provision. In the event that Supplier Processes Personal Data that is considered U.S. “sensitive personal data” 
as defined in the U.S. DSP, in any quantity,(i) Supplier represents and warrants that it is not a “Covered Person” within the 
meaning of the U.S. DSP, and (ii) if the Supplier is a “foreign person” under the U.S. DSP, Supplier further agrees that it will 
not engage in any “covered data transactions” involving “data brokerage” of any information received from the Company 
under this Agreement with a “country of concern” or a “covered person,” within the meaning ascribed to each term under 
the U.S. DSP. 
 
4 CCPA.  
4.1 Additional Definitions. 
4.1.1 “CCPA”  means  the  California  Consumer  Privacy  Act  of  2018,  as  amended,  including  as  amended  by  the  California  Privacy  
Rights Act of 2020, together with all implementing regulations. 
4.1.2 The  terms  “business”,  “business  purpose”,  “consumer”,  “personal  information”,  “processing”,  “sale”,  “sell”,  “service  
provider”, and “share” have the meanings given in the CCPA, where CCPA is applicable. 
 
4.2 Compliance.  (i) Supplier will provide the level of privacy protection required by CCPA, and (ii) where applicable, further 
represents and warrants that it understands and will comply with this Agreement. Supplier will Process Personal Data 
in  compliance  with  this  Agreement  and  CCPA.  Supplier  will  notify  Mastercard  if,  Supplier  is  unable  to  meet  its  
obligations under the CCPA and this Agreement. 
 
5 Argentine  Data.  In  the  event  Personal  Data  subject  to  the  Argentina  Personal  Data  Protection  Act  25.326  (PDPA)  (Ley  de  
Protección  de  los  Datos  Personales)  is  processed,  the  parties  undertake  to  comply  with  the  obligations  applicable  to  a  data  
controller set forth in the model contract titled Contrato Modelo de Transferencia Internacional de Datos Personales con Motivo 
de Cesión  de Datos  Personales  adopted  by  the  Data  Protection  Agency  of  the  Republic  of  Argentina  under  Disposition  60  — 
E/2016 (the 'Argentinian SCCs’) for the transfer of personal data to third countries. 
 
6 Thailand Data Processing Addendum 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 26 of 27
 
6.1 Unless the Parties can rely on other cross-border transfer mechanisms as permitted under the applicable AMS Law, 
where Mastercard entity located in Thailand transfers Personal Data ("Data Exporter") to the Supplier that is located outside of 
Thailand or an Adequate Country ("Data Importer"), the Parties agree that the transfer shall be governed by the latest version 
of the ASEAN Model Contractual Clauses for Cross Border Data Flows (Controller to Controller) in effect ("ASEAN MCCs Module 
2:  Contractual  Provisions  for  Controller-to  -Controller  Transfers"),  which  are  hereby  incorporated  into  this  Agreement  by  
reference,  subject  to  Clauses  6.1,  6.2,  6.3,  and  6.4  of  this  Addendum.  The  Parties  agree  that  signature  to  and  dating  of  this  
Agreement  shall  constitute  all  required  signatures  and  dates  for  the  ASEAN  MCCs  Module  2:  Contractual  Provisions  for  
Controller-to-Controller Transfers. For the avoidance of doubt, the transfer under this Addendum excludes the transmission and 
reception of Personal Data as an intermediary in data transit between computer systems or networks, or data storage in formats 
that do not allow the Data Importer or any other persons to access the Personal Data. 
6.2 In deviation of Clause 1 of the ASEAN MCCs Module 2: Contractual Provisions for Controller-to-Controller Transfers, 
the following terms shall have the following meanings: 
6.2.1 “AMS  Law”:  Any  and  all  written  laws  of  Thailand  relating  to  data  protection  (or  are,  minimally,  relevant  to  the  
transfer of Personal Data) which the Data Exporter or the Data Importer (or both) are subject to. For avoidance of 
the doubt, the AMS Law applicable in respect to the purpose as described in this Agreement is the Personal Data 
Protection  Act  B.E.  2562  (2019),  including  any  relevant  regulations  and  rules,  and  other  applicable  laws,  as  
respectively amended or re-enacted, or as modified from time to time by other provisions (before or after the date 
hereof). 
6.2.2 "Personal Data Breach" shall have the meanings given to them under the applicable AMS Law. 
6.3 In  supplementation  of  Clause  1  of  the  ASEAN  MCCs  Module  2:  Contractual  Provisions  for  Controller-to-Controller 
Transfers, the following terms shall have the following meanings: 
6.3.1 "Adequate Country”: A country or territory that is recognized by Thailand's data protection Enforcement Authority 
from time to time as providing adequate protection for processing Personal Data. 
6.3.2 The terms "Controller" and "Processor" shall have the meanings given to them under the applicable AMS Law. 
6.4 For  the  purposes  of  the  ASEAN  MCCs  ASEAN  MCCs  Module  2:  Contractual  Provisions  for  Controller-to-Controller 
Transfers that apply pursuant to Clause 1 of this Addendum, the Parties agree the following: 
6.4.1 Any  Clauses  identified  as  [Optional Clause]  or  not  mandatory  for  inclusion  in  the  ASEAN  MCCs  Module  2:  
Contractual  Provisions  for  Controller-to-Controller  Transfers  shall  not  apply.  For  the  avoidance  of  doubt,  this  
includes Clauses 2.2, 2.3, 3.1, 3.5, 3.6, 4.3, Commercial Components and Additional Terms for Individual Remedies; 
and 
6.4.2 Clause 3.4 shall not apply. 
 
7 Brazilian Data Transfers.  
 
7.1 “Brazil Standard Contractual Clauses”, or “Brazil SCCs”: means one of the mechanisms for transferring personal data 
under the Brazil GDPA to international processing agents, adopted by the National Data Protection Authority (ANPD) 
under Resolution n. 19/2024 and its Annex II, available at ANPD’s official website: 
regulation-on-international-transfer-
of-personal-data.pdf,  including  the  text  from  the  modules  of  such  clauses  as  specified  in  the  Data  Processing  
Agreement. 
7.2 In the event Personal Data processed under the Agreement is subject to the Brazil General Data Protection Act (Federal 
Law n. 13.709/2018 – Lei Geral de Proteção de Dados Pessoais –    “LGPD”), particularly the provisions foreseen in  article 
33  to  36  of  the  Brazil  GDPA,  Supplier  agrees  to  comply  with  the  obligations  of  a  Controller/data  importer  and  all  
applicable  Controller  and/or  data  importer  obligations  foreseen  in  the  LGPD  or  in  any  regulations  set  forth  by  the  
National  Data  Protection  Authority  (“ANPD”),  and  agrees  to  add  the  language  of  the  latest  Standard  Contractual  
Clauses template available in Annex II, of Resolution 19/2024 of ANPD to regulate any transfer of personal data shared 
with  Mastercard  for  the  purposes  of  providing  goods  or  services  foreseen  on  the  applicable  SOWs  when  outside  of  
Brazil, or to third parties and/or processing agents located outside of Brazil. 
7.3 For purposes of the Brazil SCCs, Mastercard is the Controller/Data Exporter entity; the Supplier is the Controller/Data 
Importer entity as identified in the Agreement or in any SOW entered into under the Agreement. Supplier agrees that 
all information required in Clause 1.1. of the Brazil SCCs (Annex II of the ANPD Resolution n. 19/2024), will be the one 
provided in the corresponding SOW. All data required of the Parties as qualification of the Controller/data exporter or 

              
Data Processing Agreement 
v2| 05-2025               Page 27 of 27
 
Controller/data importer in Clause 1.1., whenever applicable, will be the following: i) Name, main address and e-mail 
address will the ones as filled by the Parties in the corresponding SOW and Agreement; ii) Contact for the data subject 
will be the corresponding channel of communication provided by the Parties on their website and/or Privacy Notice. 
7.4 For  purposes  of  Clauses  2  and  3  of  the  Brazil  SCCs,  the  description  of  the  international  data  transfers  between  the  
Parties will be the ones as foreseen in Annex I of Addendum A1 of the Agreement. For purposes of Clause 4.1. of the 
Brazil SCCs, Mastercard will be responsible, as the Controller/data exporter, for obligations foreseen in items “a”, “b” 
and “c”. 
7.5 Any additional information necessary for carrying out the international data transfers necessary for the execution of 
the Agreement, under the obligations foreseen by Resolution n. 19/2024 and its Annex II of ANPD, will be negotiated 
between the Parties and/or disclosed in the SOW or Agreement, as necessary and applicable. 
7.6 The Parties agree that, upon adoption by the ANPD of a new version of the Brazil SCCs under Resolution n. 19/2024 or 
any subsequent regulation, such updated version shall automatically replace the previous version referenced in this 
Agreement,  without  the  need  for  further  amendment,  and  shall  apply  to  all  ongoing  and  future  international  data  
transfers governed by this Agreement 
  