DATA PROCESSING AGREEMENT 

Last updated 29th November 2024 

This Data Processing Agreement (“DPA”, “Agreement”) is an addendum to and forms part  of the master agreement between the Administrator of Bitrix24 Customer Account  and Alaio (https://www.bitrix24.com/terms/) to reflect the parties’ agreement for the  provision of the Processor Services (as amended from time to time) and processing  of Bitrix24 Customer Account User’s Personal Data in accordance with the  requirements of the Data Protection Legislation. 

This Data Processing Agreement will be effective from the Effective Date. 

BY CLICKING THE "I ACCEPT" BUTTON BELOW, YOU (A) ACKNOWLEDGE THAT YOU  HAVE READ AND UNDERSTAND THIS AGREEMENT; (B) REPRESENT AND  WARRANT THAT YOU HAVE THE RIGHT, POWER, AND AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO  THIS AGREEMENT; AND (C) ACCEPT THIS AGREEMENT AND AGREE THAT YOU  ARE LEGALLY BOUND BY ITS TERMS.  

APPLICATION OF THIS DPA 

  

If there is any conflict or inconsistency between the terms of this DPA and the Terms of  Service (https://www.bitrix24.eu/terms/), the DPA will govern. Subject to the amendments in  this DPA, the Terms of Service remain in full force and effect. 

THE PARTIES HEREBY MUTUALLY AGREE AS FOLLOWS: 

1. INTRODUCTION 

This DPA reflect the parties’ agreement on the terms governing the processing and security  of User Personal Data in connection with the Data Protection Legislation. 

1.1 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION 

“Alaio” shall have the meaning according to the Contracting Party section of Alaio (former  Bitrix24) Terms of Service (https://bitrix24.com/terms/) depending on the domain zone  registration of your customer account, the following legal entities will be your Data  Controllers: 

a) Alaio Cloud Limited a company registered under the laws of the Republic of Cyprus with  its registered office at Frema House, office 102, No. 9, Constantinou Paparigopoulou Str.,  3106, Limassol, Cyprus; 

b) Alaio Inc. a company organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, United  States of America with its registered address at 700 North Fairfax St., Suite 614-B,  Alexandria, VA 22314, USA; and

c) Bitrix24 India Private Limited with its registered office address is B-01, Prestige Centre  Point, Edward Road, H.K.P.Road, Bangalore, Bangalore North, Karnataka, India, 560054,  and its affiliates  

(collectively, "Alaio", "We", "Us" "Our" or "Bitrix24"). 

“Administrator” means user having administrative privileges as defined in the Terms of  Service (https://www.bitrix24.eu/terms/). 

“Bitrix24” means; Bitrix24 website, products and services provided by Alaio as specified in  Bitrix24 terms of service (https://www.bitrix24.com/terms/).  

“User Personal Data” means personal data that is processed by Alaio on behalf of the  Administrator as part of Alaio provision of the Processor Services. 

“Data Incident” means a breach of Bitrix24 security leading to the accidental or unlawful  destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or access to, User Personal Data  on systems managed by or otherwise controlled by Alaio. “Data Incidents” will not include  unsuccessful attempts or activities that do not compromise the security of User Personal  

Data, including unsuccessful log-in attempts, pings, port scans, denial of service attacks,  and other network attacks on firewalls or networked systems. 

“Data Protection Legislation” means all legislation and regulatory 

requirements in force from time to time relating to the use of personal data and the privacy of electronic communicationsincluding, but not limited to: EU 2016/679  General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR);California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 and any  other USA applicable federal and state privacy legislation; General Data Protection Law  (Law No. 13.709/2018 of Brazil, (Lei Geral de Proteção de Dados); Law No. 30 of 2018 on  the Protection of Personal Data of Bahrein; the federal Privacy Act 1988 of Australia;  Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act of Canada; The Personal  Information Protection Law of China; Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance (Cap. 486) of  Hong Kong; Information Technology Act 2000 as amended by the Information Technology  (Amendment) Act 2008 of India; Digital Personal Data Protection Act of India; Law No. 11  of 2008 on Electronic Information and Transactions (EIT Law) of Indonesia; Government  Regulation No. 71 of 2019 on the Provision of Electronic Systems and Transactions  (Electronic Systems Regulation) of Indonesia; Ministry of Communications and Information  Technology (MCI) Regulation No. 20 of 2016 on Personal Data Protection in an Electronic  System (Personal Data Regulation) of Indonesia; Protection of Privacy Law (5741-1981) of  Israel; Act on the Protection of Personal Information of Japan; Personal Data Protection Act  2010 (PDPA of Malaysia; Privacy Act 1993 of New Zealand; The Data Privacy Act of 2012  (Republic Act No. 10173) of Philippines; Law No.13 of 2016 Promulgating the Protection of  the Privacy of Personal Data Law of Qatar; The Personal Data Protection Act 2012 of  Singapore; The Protection of Personal Information Act 2013 of South Africa; Personal  Information Protection Act of South Korea; Federal Data Protection Act of 19 June 1992  (Switzerland), Personal Data Protection Act of Taiwan; Law on Protection of Personal Data  No. 6698 of Turkey; Law No. 18,331 on Personal Data Protection and Habeas Data Action  as amended by Laws No. 18,719 and 18,996 of Uruguay; Decree No. 414/009 regulating  the PDPL of Uruguay. 

“Effective Date” means, as applicable:

The date on which User clicked to accept or the parties otherwise agreed to this DPA. 

“Notification Email Address” means Primary email addresses associated with your  account used by the first administrator for portal registration, used also to receive certain  notifications from Bitrix24 relating to these Data Processing Terms or used for email  authentication. 

“Personal Data” means any information relating to an identified or identifiable natural  person ('data subject'); an identifiable person is one who can be identified, directly or  indirectly, in particular by reference to an identification number or to one or more factors  specific to his physical, physiological, mental, economic cultural or social identity;  

“Processing of personal data” means any operation or set of operations which is  performed upon Personal Data, whether or not by automatic means, such as collection,  recording, organization, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use,  disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment or  combination, blocking, erasure or destruction (“Process”, “Processes” and “Processed”  shall have the same meaning). 

“Security measures” means measures to protect personal data against accidental or  unlawful destruction or accidental loss, alternation, unauthorised disclosure or access and  against all other unlawful forms of processing as described in the document (or the  applicable part dependent on what Services Administrator purchases from Bitrix24), as  updated from time to time, and accessible via the link in the Appendix 2 to this DPA. 

“Processor Services” means the provision of maintenance and support services,  consultancy or professional services and the provision of software as a service or any other  services provided under the Agreement where Bitrix24 Processes Personal Data on behalf  of the Administrator.  

“Sub-processors” means third parties authorized by Bitrix24 to have logical access to and  process Personal Data in order to provide parts of the Processor Services and any related  technical support. 

“Service provider” means any entity operated for profit that “processes information on  behalf of a business and to which the business discloses a consumer's personal  information for a business purpose pursuant to a written contract. 

“Term” means the period from the Effective Date until the end of Bitrix24 provision of the  Processor Services to Administrator under the Agreement. 

“User” means any user of Bitrix24 Customer Account with or without administrative  privileges as defined in Terms of Service (https://www.bitrix24.eu/terms/). 

The terms “Data controller”, “Data subject”, “Personal data”, “Processing”, “Data  processor” and “Supervisory authority” as used in this DPA have the meanings given in  the Data Protection Legislation.

2. PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA 

2.1 Roles and Regulatory Compliance; Authorization. 

2.1.1 Processor and Controller Responsibilities. The parties acknowledge and agree that: (a) Appendix 1 to the Agreement describes the subject matter and details of the processing  of Personal Data; 

(b) Alaio is a processor (service provider under the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020  and any other applicable federal and state USA privacy legislation) of Personal Data under  the applicable Data Protection Legislation; 

(c) Administrator is a controller or processor, as applicable, of Personal Data under the  Data Protection Legislation; and 

(d) each party will comply with the obligations applicable to it under the Data Protection  Legislation with respect to the processing of Personal Data; 

(e) Administrator shall, in its use or receipt of the Services, Process Personal Data in  accordance with the requirements of Data Protection Legislation and will ensure that its  instructions for the Processing of Personal Data shall comply with Data Protection  Legislation. Administrator shall have sole responsibility for the accuracy, quality, and  legality of Personal Data and the means by which Administrator acquired Personal Data. Alaio will inform the Administrator immediately if it believes that a data processing instruction violates the GDPR or other data protection provisions of the Union or the  Member States. 

2.2 Authorization by Third Party Controller. If Administrator is a processor, Administrator  warrants to Alaio that it´s instructions and actions with respect to Personal Data, including  its appointment of Alaioas another processor, have been authorized by the relevant  controller. 

2.3 The parties agree that with regard to the Processing of Personal Data, Alaio or  members of the Alaio Group will engage Sub-processors pursuant to the requirements set  forth in Section 7 “Sub-processors” below. 

2.4 By entering into this Data Processing Agreement, Administrator instructs Alaio to  process Personal Data only in accordance with applicable law: (a) to provide the Processor  Services and any related technical support; (b) as further specified via Administrator´s use  of the Processor Services (including in the settings and other functionality of the Processor  Services) and any related technical support; (c) as documented in this Data Processing  Agreement; and (d) as further documented in any other written instructions given by  Administrator and acknowledged by Bitrix24 as constituting instructions for purposes of this  Data Processing Agreement. 

2.5 Deletion on Term Expiry. On expiry of the Term, Administrator instructs Alaio to delete  all Personal Data (including existing copies) from Bitrix24 systems in accordance with  applicable law. Alaio will comply with this instruction as soon as reasonably practicable and  within a maximum period of 90 days, unless any applicable law requires storage. 2.5.1 Account deletion. Paid plans devolve to the free plan according to the process  described above. If the Bitrix24 Customer Account is on a free plan (either converted to a  free plan or originally on a free plan) and is completely inactive over the course of 30 days,  it is 'archived', and it can be retrieved only by an administrator account (yourself or a user in  the instance with administrator rights). To retrieve the account, a User without  administrative rights simply needs to log in. 

If no User logs in for another 15 days after the instance has been 'archived', Bitrix24  Customer Account will be deleted.

2.5.2 The Administrator may initiate deletion of the Bitrix24 Customer Account by first  dismissing other Administrators, if any, which will entail deletion of all the connected User  Accounts and all connected User Content, subject to the availability of such feature. In this  case, Bitrix24 Customer Account will be made inactive immediately and completely deleted  over the course of 90 (ninety) calendar days. However, this operation will not delete  completely User´s Bitrix24 network accounts which will remain active for use in another  Bitrix24 Customer Accounts. 

3. DURATION OF THIS DPA 

This DPA will take effect on the Effective Date and, notwithstanding expiry of the Term,  remain in effect until, and automatically expire upon, deletion of all User Personal Data by  Bitrix24 as described in this DPA. 

4. RIGHTS OF DATA SUBJECTS 

4.1 If the Administrator, in its use or receipt of the Services, does not have the ability to  correct, amend, block or delete Personal Data, as required by Data Protection Legislation,  Alaio will (taking into account the nature of the processing of Personal Data and, if  applicable, Article 11 of the GDPR) assist Administrator in fulfilling any obligation of  Administrator to respond to requests by data subjects, including (if applicable)  Administrator´s obligation to respond to requests for exercising the data subject’s rights  laid down in Chapter III of the GDPR and other Data Protection Legislation, by providing  the functionality of the Processor Services; 

4.2 Alaio shall, to the extent legally permitted, promptly notify Administrator if it receives a  request from a Data Subject for access to, correction, amendment, restriction, deletion or  exercising any other rights under the GDPR or other Data Protection Legislation of that  person’s Personal Data. Alaio shall not respond to any such Data Subject request without  Administrator´s prior written consent except to confirm that the request relates to User.  Alaio shall provide Administrator with cooperation and assistance in relation to handling of  a Data Subject’s request for access to that person’s Personal Data or exercising any other  rights under the GDPR or other Data Protection Legislation, to the extent legally permitted  and to the extent User does not have access to such Personal Data through its use or  receipt of the Services. 

5. PERSONNEL 

5.1 Alaio shall ensure that its personnel engaged in the Processing of Personal Data are  informed of the confidential nature of the Personal Data, have received appropriate training  on their responsibilities and are subject to obligations of confidentiality as described in the  Appendix 2 to this DPA and such obligations survive the termination of that persons’  engagement with Alaio. 

5.2 Alaio shall ensure that Alaio Group’s access to Personal Data is limited to those  personnel who require such access to perform the Agreement. 

6. DATA SECURITY 

 

6.2 Alaio Security Measures. Alaio will implement and maintain technical, physical and  organisational measures to protect confidentiality and integrity of Personal Data against  accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure or access as  described in the Appendix 2 to this DPA (the “Security Measures”). As described in the  Appendix 2 to this DPA, the Security Measures include measures: (a) to help ensure the  ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of Bitrix24 systems and services;  (b) to help restore timely access to personal data following an incident; and (c) for regular testing of effectiveness. Alaio may update or modify the Security Measures from time to  time, provided that such updates and modifications do not result in the degradation of the  overall security of the Processor Services. 

6.3 Security Compliance by Alaio Staff. Alaio will take appropriate steps to ensure  compliance with the Security Measures by its employees, contractors and Sub-processors  to the extent applicable to their scope of performance, including ensuring that all persons  authorised to process Personal Data have committed themselves to confidentiality or are  under an appropriate statutory obligation of confidentiality as described in the Appendix 2 to  this DPA. 

6.4 Alaio Security Assistance. Administrator agrees that Alaio will assist in ensuring  compliance with any obligations of Administrator in respect of security of personal data and  personal data breaches, including (if applicable) Administrator’s obligations pursuant to  Articles 32 to 34 (inclusive) of the GDPR, by: 

(a) implementing and maintaining the Security Measures in accordance with the Appendix  2 to this DPA; 

(b) complying with the terms of Section 8 (Data Incidents); and 

(c) providing User with the Security Documentation. 

7. SUB-PROCESSORS 

7.1 Consent to Sub-processor Engagement. Administrator specifically authorizes that Alaio is engaging a number of third-party Sub-processors in connection with the provision of the  Service (also accessible via Bitrix24 Infrastructure, Sub-processors and joint controllers).    

7.2 Requirements for Sub-processor Engagement. When engaging any Sub-processor,  Alaio will: 

(a) ensure via a written contract that: 

(i) the Sub-processor only accesses and uses Personal Data to the extent required to  perform the obligations subcontracted to it, and does so in accordance with the Agreement  (including this DPA); and 

(ii) if the GDPR applies to the processing of Personal Data, the data protection obligations  set out in Article 28(3) of the GDPR are imposed on the Sub-processor; (b) Alaio have entered into a written agreement with each Sub-processor containing data  protection obligations not less protective than those in this DPA with respect to the  protection of Personal Data to the extent applicable to the nature of the Services provided  by such Sub-processor; and 

(c) remain fully liable for all obligations subcontracted to, and all acts and omissions of, the  Sub-processor. 

7.4 Objection Right for New Sub-processors.  

When any new Sub-processor is engaged during the Term, and if the GDPR applies to the  processing of Personal Data, Alaio will, at least 10 days before the new Sub-processor  processes any Personal Data, inform Administrator of the engagement (including the name 

and location of the relevant sub-processor and the activities it will perform) by sending an  email to the Notification Email Address.  

Administrator may object to any new Sub-processor by notifying Alaio promptly in writing  within five (5) business days after receipt of Alaio notice. In the event Administrator objects  to a new Sub-processor, Alaio will use reasonable efforts to make available to  Administrator a change in the Services or recommend a commercially reasonable change  to Administrator´s configuration or use of the Services to avoid Processing of Personal  Data by the objected-to new Sub-processor without unreasonably burdening the User. If  Alaio is unable to make available such change within a reasonable period of time, which  shall not exceed thirty (30) days, Administrator may terminate the applicable Order with  respect only to those Services which cannot be provided by Alaio without the use of the  objected-to new Sub-processor by providing written notice to Alaio. Alaio will refund  Administrator any prepaid fees covering the remainder of the term of such Order following  the effective date of termination with respect to such terminated Services, without imposing  a penalty for such termination on Administrator. 

8. DATA INCIDENTS. 

8.1 Incident Notification. If Alaio becomes aware of a Data Incident, Alaio will: (a) notify  Administrator of the Data Incident promptly and without undue delay; and (b) promptly take  reasonable steps to minimize the harm and secure Personal Data. 

8.2 Details of Data Incident. Notifications will describe, to the extent possible, details of the  Data Incident, including steps taken to mitigate the potential risks and steps Alaio recommends Administrator take to address the Data Incident. 

8.3 Delivery of Notification. Alaio will deliver its notification of any Data Incident to the  Notification Email Address or, at Bitrix24 discretion, by other direct communication (for  example, by phone call or an in-person meeting). Administrator is solely responsible for  ensuring that the Notification Email Address is current and valid. 

8.4 Third Party Notifications. Administrator is solely responsible for complying with breach  notification laws applicable to Administrator and fulfilling any third party notification  obligations related to any Data Incident. 

8.5 No Acknowledgement of Fault by Alaio. Alaio notification of or response to a Data  Incident will not be construed as an acknowledgement by Alaio of any fault or liability with  respect to the Data Incident. 

9. INSPECTIONS OF COMPLIANCE 

9.1 To demonstrate compliance by Alaio with its obligations under this DPA, and upon  Administrator´s request, Alaio will provide more detailed information on the security  measures described in the Appendix 2 to this DPA. 

9.2 Upon Administrator´s request, and subject to the confidentiality obligations set forth in  this DPA, Alaio shall make available to User that is not a competitor of Alaio (or  Administrator´s independent, third-party auditor that is not a competitor of Bitrix24)  information regarding Alaio compliance with the obligations set forth in this DPA and the  security measures as described in the Appendix 2 to this DPA. Administrator may contact  Alaio to request an on-site inspection of the architecture, systems and procedures relevant  to the protection of Personal Data at locations where Personal Data is stored. Administrator  shall reimburse Alaio for any time expended by Alaio or its third-party Sub-processors for  any such on-site inspection at the Alaio then-current professional services rates, which  shall be made available to Administrator upon request. Before the commencement of any  such on-site audit, Administrator and Alaio shall mutually agree upon the scope, timing, and  duration of the inspection in addition to the reimbursement rate for which Administrator 

shall be responsible. All reimbursement rates shall be reasonable, taking into account the  resources expended by Alaio, or its third-party Sub-processors. Administrator shall  promptly notify Alaio with information regarding any non-compliance discovered during the  course of an inspection. 

10. DATA PROTECTION IMPACT ASSESSMENT 

Upon Administrator´s request, Alaio will assist Administrator in ensuring compliance with  any obligations of Administrator in respect of data protection impact assessments and prior  consultation, including (if applicable) Administrator´s obligations pursuant to Articles 35  and 36 of the GDPR, to the extent User does not otherwise have access to the relevant  information, and to the extent such information is available to Alaio. Alaio shall provide  reasonable assistance to Administrator in the cooperation or prior consultation with the  Supervisory Authority in the performance of its tasks. 

11. DATA TRANSFERS 

11.1 Data storage geography depending on Alaio (Bitrix24) domain zone is described in the  Alaio Infrastructure, Sub-processors and joint controllers section. 

All Data obtained via Bitrix24.eu, Bitrix24.de, Bitrix.it, Bitrix24.pl, Bitrix24.uk and Bitrix24.fr  domain zones is processed by Alaio Cloud Limited registered on Republic of Cyprus inside  the European Union Economic Area and hosted inside the European Union in Frankfurt,  Germany by Amazon Web Services data centers, which are fully GDPR compliant - https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/security/...dpr-ready/ 

11.2 For more information about data processing activities related to Users registered  through the domain names Bitrix24.com, Bitrix24.com.br, Bitrix24.in, Bitrix24.tr, Bitrix24.cn,  Bitrix24.cn/tc, Bitrix24.mx , Bitrix24.co, Bitrix24.vn, Bitrix24.id, Bitrix24.jp, Bitrix24.com/my,  Bitrix24.com/th, Bitrix24.com.tr, please see Alaio Infrastructure, Sub-processors and joint  controllers section. 

11.3 International transfers.  

11.3.1 Alaio may process User Personal Data in Russian Federation subject to appropriate  safeguards under article 46 GDPR (see schedule 11.4) and in the USA (see  schedules 11.3.2 and 11.3.3) 

11.3.2 Specific for data transfers from EU, UK and Switzerland to the USA, Alaio, Inc  complies with the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework (EU-U.S. DPF), the UK  Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF, and the Swiss-U.S. Data Privacy Framework (Swiss U.S. DPF) as set forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce. Alaio, Inc has certified  to the U.S. Department of Commerce that it adheres to the EU-U.S. Data Privacy  Framework Principles (EU-U.S. DPF Principles) with regard to the processing of  personal data received from the European Union in reliance on the EU-U.S. DPF  and from the United Kingdom (and Gibraltar) in reliance on the UK Extension to the  EU-U.S. DPF. Alaio, Inc has certified to the U.S. Department of Commerce that it  adheres to the Swiss-U.S. Data Privacy Framework Principles (Swiss-U.S. DPF  Principles) with regard to the processing of personal data received from Switzerland  in reliance on the Swiss-U.S. DPF. If there is any conflict between the terms in this  DPA and the EU-U.S. DPF Principles and/or the Swiss-U.S. DPF Principles, the  Principles shall govern. To learn more about the Data Privacy Framework (DPF)  program, and to view our certification, please  

visit https://www.dataprivacyframework.gov/. The Data Privacy Framework (DPF)  list of participating organisations is available at 

https://www.dataprivacyframework.gov/s/participant-search. Under certain  conditions, you can invoke the corresponding binding arbitration. 

The Federal Trade Commission has jurisdiction over Alaio, Inc compliance with the EU U.S. Data Privacy Framework (EU-U.S. DPF) and the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF,  and the Swiss-U.S. Data Privacy Framework (Swiss-U.S. DPF) 

11.3.3 Disputes resolution 

Alaio, Inc Internal Complaints MechanismIn compliance with the EU-U.S. DPF, the UK  Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF and the Swiss-U.S. DPF, Alaio, Inc commits to resolve DPF  Principles-related complaints about our collection and use of your personal information.  EU, UK and Swiss individuals with inquiries or complaints regarding our handling of  personal data received in reliance on the EU-U.S. DPF, the UK Extension to the EU-U.S.  DPF and the Swiss-U.S. DPF should first contact Alaio, Inc at: privacy@bitrix24.com 

Alternative Dispute Resolution Body 

In compliance with the EU-U.S. DPF, the UK Extension to the EU-U.S. DPF and the Swiss U.S. DPF, Alaio, Inc commits to refer unresolved complaints concerning our handling of  personal data received in reliance on the EU-U.S. DPF, the UK Extension to the EU-U.S.  DPF and the Swiss-U.S. DPF to JAMS, an alternative dispute resolution provider based in  the United States. If you do not receive timely acknowledgment of your DPF Principles related complaint from us, or if we have not addressed your DPF Principles-related  complaint to your satisfaction, please visit https://www.jamsadr.com/for more information or  to file a complaint. The services of JAMS are provided at no cost to you.  

11.4 The security of data and the data subject rights under GDPR for the data  processing activities in Russian Federation are protected by appropriate safeguards under  article 46 GDPR, specifically by the Standard Contractual Clauses adopted by the  European Commission in accordance with the examination procedure. European  Commission decided that standard contractual clauses offer sufficient safeguards on data  protection for the data to be transferred internationally. You have a right to request  information on those contractual safeguards (Please contact our Data Protection Officer). 

12. GOVERNING LAW 

12.1 This DPA (including any non-contractual matters and obligations arising therefrom or  associated therewith) shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of  Republic of Cyprus. 

12.2 Any dispute, controversy, proceedings or claim between the Parties relating to this  Agreement (including any non-contractual matters and obligations arising therefrom or  associated therewith) shall fall within the jurisdiction of the courts of Republic of Cyprus. 

12.3 For data transfers outside the EEA listed in schedules 11.3.4 protected by appropriate  safeguards under article 46 GDPR, specifically by the standard data protection clauses  adopted by the Commission in accordance with the examination procedure from controllers  in the EU to processors established outside the EU and Users when the processing is in the  context of the activities of an establishment of EEA countries other than Republic of Cyprus 

and/or Users offering services to data subjects who are in the EEA countries other than  Republic of Cyprus the lead supervisory authority is Republic of Cyprus under article 56 

GDPR.  

The supervisory authority of the single establishment of Alaio within the EEA competent to  act as lead supervisory authority for the cross-border processing carried out by that  processor in accordance with the procedure provided in Article 60 of GDPR is the supervisory  authority of Cyprus. 

13. CHANGES TO THIS DPA  

13.1 Alaio may change this DPA if the change: 

(a) is expressly permitted by this DPA; 

(b) reflects a change in the name or form of a legal entity; 

(c) is required to comply with applicable law, applicable regulation, a court order or  guidance issued by a governmental regulator or agency; or 

(d) does not: (i) result in a degradation of the overall security of the Processor Services; (ii)  expand the scope of, or remove any restrictions on, Bitrix24 processing of Personal Data;  and (iii) otherwise have a material adverse impact on User’s rights under this DPA, as  reasonably determined by Bitrix24. 

13.2 Notification of Changes. If Alaio makes any updates to this DPA, Alaio will inform  Administrator by either: (a) sending an email to the Notification Email Address; or (b)  alerting Administrator via the user interface for the Processor Services. If Administrator  objects to any such change, Administrator may terminate the Agreement by giving written  notice to Alaio within 30 days of being informed by Alaio of the change. 

  

 Appendix 1 

SUBJECT MATTER AND DETAILS OF THE DATA  

PROCESSING SUBJECT MATTER 

Data Subjects. The personal data transferred concern the following categories of data  subjects. 

1. Data subjects about whom Alaio collects personal data in its provision of the  Processor Services; and/or 

2. Data subjects about whom personal data is transferred to Alaio in connection with  the Processor Services by, at the direction of, or on behalf of Administrator.  

Including: 

● Staff including volunteers, agents, temporary and casual workers 

● Users and clients (including their staff) 

● Suppliers (including their staff) 

● Members or supporters 

● Complainants, correspondents and enquirers

● Advisers, consultants and other professional experts 

Categories of data The personal data transferred concern the following categories of data: 

● Personal details, including any information that identifies the data subject and their  personal characteristics, including: first and last name, business contact details; 

● Communications metadata 

● Employment data which may include: working time, geolocation (under user’s  consent as part of working time tracking) 

● Goods or services provided and related information, including details of the goods or  services supplied, licences issued, and contracts 

● Location country, city, state and region 

● Online identifiers 

● Device identifiers 

● Documents structured data 

● Personal images, audio and video recordings 

● Lifestyle and social circumstances 

● Signatures 

Special categories of data (if appropriate): 

N/A 

Processing operations The personal data will be subject to the following basic processing  activities (please specify): 

● IT, digital, technology or telecom services, including provision of technology products  or services, telecoms and network services, digital services, hosting, cloud and  support services or software licensing. Including, but not limited to:  

● Collecting, recording, organizing, structuring, storing, retrieving, using, disclosing,  erasing and destroying) User Personal Data for the purpose of providing the  Services and any related technical support to User in accordance with this Data  Processing Agreement. The services include the following: Social Intranet, Project  Management and Tasks, Chat and Video, Document Management and  Bitrix24.Drive, Calendars, Mail, CRM, Sites, Open Channels, Contact center, 

Telephony, Time management, CRM marketing, Workflows, eCommerce, Box  version.  

  

Appendix 2  

SECURITY MEASURES 

Alaio will implement and maintain the Security Measures set out in this Appendix 2. Alaio may update or modify such Security Measures from time to time, provided that such  updates and modifications do not result in the degradation of the overall security of the  Processor Services.  

1. KEY PRINCIPLES OF THE DATA PROTECTION BY BITRIX24 

1.1 All Alaio IT Systems are protected against unauthorised access. 

1.2 All Alaio IT Systems are used only in compliance with relevant Company  Policies. 

1.3 All Alaio employees and any third parties authorised to use the IT Systems  including, but not limited to sub-processors, must ensure that they are familiar  with this Policies and must adhere to and comply with it at all times. 

1.4 All line managers ensure that all employees and sub-processors under their  control and direction adhere to and comply with this Policies at all times as  required under paragraph 2.3. 

1.5 All data stored on IT Systems are managed securely in compliance with all  relevant parts of EU Regulation 2016/679 General Data Protection Regulation  (“GDPR”) and all other laws governing data protection whether now or in the  future in force. 

1.6 All data stored on IT Systems is classified appropriately. All data so classified  is handled appropriately in accordance with its classification. 

1.7 All data stored on IT Systems is available only to those Users with a legitimate  need for access. 

1.8 All data stored on IT Systems is protected against unauthorised access and  processing. 

1.9 All data stored on IT Systems is protected against loss and corruption. 

1.10 All breaches of security pertaining to the IT Systems or any data stored thereon  are reported and subsequently investigated by the IT Department.  

2. SOFTWARE SECURITY MEASURES 

2.1 All software in use on the IT Systems (including, but not limited to, operating  systems, individual software applications, and firmware) are kept up-to-date  and any and all relevant software updates, patches, fixes, and other  intermediate releases are applied. 

2.2 Where any security flaw is identified in any software that flaw is fixed  immediately or the software may be withdrawn from the IT Systems until such  time as the security flaw can be effectively remedied.  

2.3 No Alaio employees may install any software of their own, whether that software  is supplied on physical media or whether it is downloaded, without the approval  of the IT Manager. Any software must be approved by the IT Manager and may  only be installed where that installation poses no security risk to the IT Systems  and where the installation would not breach any licence agreements to which  that software may be subject. 

3. ANTI-VIRUS SECURITY MEASURES 

3.1 Alaio IT Systems (including all computers and servers) are protected with  suitable anti-virus, firewall, and other suitable internet security software. All  such software is kept up-to-date with the latest software updates and  definitions. 

3.2 All Alaio IT Systems protected by anti-virus software are subject to a full system  scan at least once a week. 

3.3 All physical media (e.g. USB memory sticks or disks of any kind) used by  employees for transferring files must is virus-scanned before any files may be  transferred. Such virus scans are performed by the IT Staff Manager. 

3.4 Alaio employees are permitted to transfer files using cloud storage systems  only with the approval of the IT Manager. All files downloaded from any cloud  storage system are scanned for viruses during the download process. 

3.5 Any files being sent to third parties outside the Company, whether by email, on  physical media, or by other means (e.g. shared cloud storage) are scanned for  viruses before being sent or as part of the sending process. 

4. HARDWARE SECURITY MEASURES 

4.1 Alaio IT Systems are located in rooms which are securely locked (with authorised Users  being granted access by means of a smart card).  

4.2 All IT Systems not intended for normal use by Users (including, but not limited to, servers,  networking equipment, and network infrastructure) are located in secured, climate-controlled  rooms in locked cabinets which may be accessed only by designated members of the IT  Department. 

4.3 All mobile devices (including, but not limited to, laptops, tablets, and smartphones)  provided by the Company are always transported securely and handled with care.  

5. ACCESS SECURITY 

5.1 Access privileges for all IT Systems is determined on the basis of employee levels of  authority within Alaio Company organization structure and the requirements of their job roles.  Employees are not granted access to any IT Systems or electronic data which are not  reasonably required for the fulfilment of their job roles. 

5.2 All IT Systems (and in particular mobile devices including, but not limited to, laptops,  tablets, and smartphones) are protected with a secure password or passcode, or such other 

form of secure log-in system as the IT Department may deem appropriate and approve.  5.3 All passwords are covered with the following security measures: 

a) Are at least 8 characters long;  

b) Contain a combination of upper and lower case letters, numbers,  symbols; 

c) Changed at least every 90 days; 

d) Different from the previous password;  

e) Not obvious or easily guessed (e.g. birthdays or other memorable  dates, memorable names, events, or places etc.); and 

f) Created by individual Users. 

5.4 All IT Systems with displays and user input devices (e.g. mouse, keyboard, touchscreen  etc.) are protected with a password protected screensaver that will activate after 5 minutes  of inactivity.  

6. DATA STORAGE SECURITY 

1.1 All data, and in particular personal data is stored securely using passwords and  OTP authorization. 

1.2 No personal data is stored on any mobile device (including, but not limited to,  laptops, tablets, and smartphones), whether such device belongs to Bitrix24 or  otherwise. 

1.3 No data, and in particular personal data, is transferred to any computer or  device personally belonging to an employee unless the employee in question  is a sub-processor working on behalf of Alaio and that employee has agreed to  comply fully with the Company’s Data Protection Policy and the GDPR. 

7. DATA PROTECTION 

7.1 All personal data (as defined in the GDPR) collected, held, and processed by Alaio is  collected, held, and processed strictly in accordance with the principles of the GDPR, the  provisions of the GDPR and the Company’s Data Protection Policy. 

7.2 All Users handling data for and on behalf of Alaio are subject to, and must comply with,  the provisions of the Company’s Data Protection Policy at all times. In particular, the following  shall apply: 

a) All emails containing confidential or sensitive personal data are  encrypted using TLS SSL protocol; 

b) All emails containing confidential or sensitive personal data are marked  “confidential”; 

c) Confidential and sensitive personal data may be transmitted over secure  networks only; transmission over unsecured networks is not permitted  under any circumstances;

d) All confidential and sensitive personal data to be transferred physically,  including that on removable electronic media, is transferred in a suitable  container marked “confidential”. 

e) Where any confidential or sensitive personal data is being viewed on a  computer screen and the computer in question is to be left unattended  for any period of time, the employee must lock the computer and screen  before leaving it. 

7.3 Any questions relating to data protection should be referred to the Data Protection Officer  Elena Riazanova (info@quick-gdpr.co.uk). 

8. DATA CENTERS & NETWORK SECURITY OF THE HOSTING PROVIDER 

Alaio uses Amazon Web Services to store and analyze data, including AWS Cloud  infrastructure in Europe (Frankfurt) Region and Europe (Ireland) Region. 

AVAILABILITY 

AWS has identified critical system components required to maintain the availability of our  system and recover service in the event of outage. Critical system components are backed  up across multiple, isolated locations known as Availability Zones. Each Availability Zone is  engineered to operate independently with high reliability. Availability Zones are connected  to enable you to easily architect applications that automatically fail-over between  Availability Zones without interruption. Highly resilient systems, and therefore service  availability, is a function of the system design. Through the use of Availability Zones and  data replication, AWS Users can achieve extremely short recovery time and recovery point  objectives, as well as the highest levels of service availability. 

BUSINESS CONTINUITY PLAN 

The AWS Business Continuity Plan outlines measures to avoid and lessen environmental  disruptions. It includes operational details about steps to take before, during, and after an  event. The Business Continuity Plan is supported by testing that includes simulations of  different scenarios. During and after testing, AWS documents people and process  performance, corrective actions, and lessons learned with the aim of continuous  improvement. 

MEDIA DESTRUCTION 

Media storage devices used to store User data are classified by AWS as Critical and  treated accordingly, as high impact, throughout their life-cycles. AWS has exacting  standards on how to install, service, and eventually destroy the devices when they are no  longer useful. When a storage device has reached the end of its useful life, AWS  decommissions media using techniques detailed in NIST 800-88. Media that stored User  data is not removed from AWS control until it has been securely decommissioned. 

INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE

Equipment maintenance. AWS monitors and performs preventative maintenance of  electrical and mechanical equipment to maintain the continued operability of systems within  AWS data centers. Equipment maintenance procedures are carried out by qualified  persons and completed according to a documented maintenance schedule. 

Environment management. AWS monitors electrical and mechanical systems and  equipment to enable immediate identification of issues. This is carried out by utilizing  continuous audit tools and information provided through our Building Management and  Electrical Monitoring Systems. Preventative maintenance is performed to maintain the  continued operability of equipment. 

GOVERNANCE & RISK 

Data Center risk management. The AWS Security Operations Center performs regular  threat and vulnerability reviews of data centers. Ongoing assessment and mitigation of  potential vulnerabilities is performed through data center risk assessment activities. This  assessment is performed in addition to the enterprise-level risk assessment process used  to identify and manage risks presented to the business as a whole. This process also takes  regional regulatory and environmental risks into consideration. 

Third-party security attestation. Third-party testing of AWS data centers, as documented  in our third-party reports, ensures AWS has appropriately implemented security measures  aligned to established rules needed to obtain security certifications. Depending on the  compliance program and its requirements, external auditors may perform testing of media  disposal, review security camera footage, observe entrances and hallways throughout a  data center, test electronic access control devices, and examine data center equipment. 

(b) Networks & Transmission. 

Data Transmission. Alaio Datacenters are connected via private links protected by AWS  Network firewalls to provide secure data transfer. This is designed to protect the  confidentiality, integrity and availability of the network and prevent data from being read,  copied, altered or removed without authorization during electronic transfer.  

Data Breach Response. Alaio monitors a variety of communication channels for security  breaches, and Alaio security personnel will react promptly to known incidents. 

External Attack Surface. Alaio considers potential attack vectors and incorporates  appropriate purpose built proprietary technologies into external facing systems. 

Encryption Technologies. Alaio uses HTTPS encryption (also referred to as SSL or TLS  connection). 

9. SUBPROCESSOR SECURITY 

Before onboarding Sub-processors, Alaio conducts an audit of the security and privacy  practices of Sub-processors to ensure Sub-processors provide a level of security and  privacy appropriate to their access to data and the scope of the services they are engaged  to provide. Once Alaio has assessed the risks presented by the Sub-processor then,  subject always to the requirements set out in Section 7 the Sub-processor is required to  enter into appropriate security, confidentiality and privacy contract terms.

